
# Quebec storm: Nearly 1 million homes without power, some could be out for several days

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Lau Digital reporter, CTV News Montreal | Contact Amy Luft Digital reporter | Contact Matthew Lapierre Digital reporter, CTV News Montreal | Contact**

Original: [Montreal](https://montreal.ctvnews.ca/quebec-storm-nearly-1-million-homes-without-power-some-could-be-out-for-several-days-1.4665624)

MONTREAL -- Wind gusts, sometimes as strong as 100km per hour, knocked out power lines and blew down trees across Quebec on Friday, killing at least one person and leaving nearly one million customers in the dark across the province.
More than 2000 power outages left 950,000 Hydro-Quebec customers without electricity as of 4:30 p.m., including 100,000 customers on the island of Montreal. Some may not see their power return for several days, the agency said.
"Our crews, before even thinking of repairing the line, sometimes they must act like lumberjacks, so there's lots of work before we can think of repairing the grid," explained Hydro-Quebec spokesperson Francis Labbe. "We suggest the population get prepared for maybe one or two days in the dark, it's better to be prepared than not prepared enough."
More than 600 lineworkers were working to restore service, the agency said. But strong winds continued to cause new outages Friday afternoon, they added.
"Some of the outages will be easy to repair, but we have so many outages that we have to spread our teams all across the province so that might complicate everything," Labbe said. 
He advised Quebecers to avoid any trees or hydro poles they think could be weakened from the strong winds.
"We suggest that people be fully aware of the hazards that might come up. If a tree has be made fragile by the wind, some branches could fall, so if you have a doubt, just don't walk under it… don't go near," he said.
Labbe said winds are expected to reach as fast as 115 kilometres per hour by late afternoon, which he said could provoke further outages.
"The good news is all these winds might calm down at the end of the afternoon so our crews will be more comfortable with the work they have to do with lower winds," he said, adding that "we have lots and lots of work to do."
Environment Canada issued a wind warning for the Greater Montreal area, citing gusts of up to 100 km/h expected Friday.
"Damage to buildings, such as to roof shingles and windows, may occur," the weather agency stated.
"Loose objects may be tossed by the wind and cause injury or damage."
The powerful winds injured numerous people across the province on Friday. Urgences-Sante and the Montreal fire department said they received nearly double the usual number of calls, and they responded to multiple cases of people being hit with blowing debris.
In Bromont, violent winds broke a tree which struck a man in the head, killing him, Bromont police confirmed.
In Montreal, in Parc-Extension, high winds dislodged bricks from the top of a three story building, hitting a 52-year-old man in the head, a spokesperson for the Montreal fire department said. He was taken to hospital, conscious, but confused, Urgences-Sante said. His injuries were considered serious. 
The Deux-Montages train line has been halted until at least 3 p.m. due to the strong winds. A shuttle service is running in its place.
Wind warnings are issued when there is a significant risk of damaging gales.
