
# Peugeot Rifter GT Line BlueHDi 100 review – MPV is a family friend

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:01:19+00:00**

Author: **Mike Torpey**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/peugeot-rifter-gt-line-bluehdi-20827869)

CARS can be informative in many ways – like how impressionable your kids will turn out to be.
Will they favour style over substance, be practical or frivolous, easily led or fiercely independent? Maybe they will require dropping off right next to the school gate or round the corner out of sight.
There have been plenty of vehicles for which the latter would certainly be the case. But French manufacturer Peugeot has broken the mould with its latest offering in the MPV sphere, the Rifter.
So it has justifiably been named winner in its category by the Association of Scottish Motoring Writers at the 2019 Scottish Car of the Year (SCOTY) Awards.
The French brand has turned away from traditional design – even if the Rifter’s shape is still on the boxy side – to produce a family offering that’s both dynamic and extremely versatile. It builds on its Partner Tepee predecessor’s most successful elements and adds a more premium driving experience.
What buyers are getting is a leisure activity vehicle with the choice of five or seven seats, a vast amount of passenger and stowage space, along with increased ground clearance, a high driving position, a tight turning circle and some tasty technology.
That includes a raft of safety and infotainment gear including adaptive cruise control, active lane departure warning system, blind spot monitoring and the optional Visiopark 180-degree colour reversing camera.
The Rifter is adaptable, too, with smart features like two sliding side doors, an opening tailgate window, three folding rear seats and a Zenith panoramic roof with numerous storage spaces.

        The Peugeot Rifter GT Line View gallery
      
And, depending on which version you pick, the boot has a loading capacity of 775 litres under shelf up to 4000 litres under ceiling storage and a refrigerated space capable of storing up to 186 litres, so it’s ideal for families.
   
Where the Rifter really scores, though, compared to its immediate rivals, is that it’s the only one able to truly venture off the beaten track.
It doesn’t just look rugged with its all-round side mouldings and wheel arch protectors but also brings the option of the brand’s Advanced Grip Control with its mud and snow tyres and Hill Assist Descent Control, which maintains the optimum speed on steep slopes.
The driving experience is also comfortable and effective, helped by a choice of Peugeot’s PureTech petrol and BlueHDi diesel engines. The BlueHDi 100 unit with a five-speed manual gearbox in our tested five-seat standard length Rifter in high-end GT Line trim was both strong and efficient.
It returned an impressive 56mpg over 200 miles of mixed motoring. That’s better than the official average of 42 to 50.6mpg, with CO2 emissions of 105 to 120g/km.
The kit is equally generous – starting with an eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system that includes DAB radio, smartphone mirroring, with Bluetooth and USB connectivity, voice recognition and 3D sat nav, as well as access to various car systems.
Other useful kit includes keyless entry and start, cruise control and speed limiter, rear parking sensors, electric windows and electric, heated, folding door mirrors, dual-zone air con, rain-sensing wipers and auto lights with fog light cornering function.
Lane departure warning with lane keeping assistance, automatic emergency braking with a collision threat alert, blind spot monitoring and Peugeot Connect SOS and Assistance to contact the emergency services should the worst happen are among the safety features.
Priced from £24,445 for this model, the Rifter looks ideally positioned to dominate its field – and not fall foul of the impressionable teens.
