
# Nelson: As we head to rock-bottom, hope is not a strategy

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:05:31+00:00**

Author: **Chris Nelson, For The Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/nelson-calgary-cant-use-hope-as-strategy-for-an-uncertain-future)

You’d think if a company wanted to tap new capital markets, then they’d come up with a name that potential investors could actually pronounce.
Maybe Encana isn’t just leaving behind its deep Canadian roots but is exploring new linguistic ones in arriving at its new corporate moniker, Ovintiv.
Not that it matters much to Calgarians. We can read the writing on the wall no matter what daft new corporate branding plan one of this country’s most prestigious energy companies has come up with to mark its transition out of Canada and into the United States, ostensibly to get access to more investment south of the border.
Of course, senior management are twittering about how this won’t affect staff here in our city, but that’s about as believable in the long run as assurances a few years back that rumours of such a planned southbound move were balderdash.
Yeah, sure. Give it a suitable few months to save face and the cuts will start a-coming. Anyone working for Ovintiv in Canada should be updating their resumes, though where in the heck they’d send them these days is another matter. Texas, perhaps?
The rebranding of one of Alberta’s oldest and most respected energy companies follows a similar move by TransCanada Pipelines a while back, when it renamed itself TC Energy to effectively decouple from its own proud northern heritage. It’s sad but you can’t blame such companies, not when the prime minister brands them as the enemy, even if speaking French at the time.
It won’t stop here, of course, though our civic and provincial politicians, who have enjoyed the free-flowing taxes and royalties such majors provided, are reluctant to recognize this reality. As for those in Ottawa, it will take decades before any such penny drops there, despite all the head-scratching currently taking place over western alienation.
In the past couple of weeks alone, we’ve had the Encana announcement, dozens of jobs being axed in Calgary by Husky, an estimate from the Petroleum Services Association of Canada predicting 500 fewer wells being drilled in 2020 and the once-thriving Pengrowth Energy company being sold off for mere pennies on the dollar.
So anyone who imagines we’ve already hit rock bottom is going to be severely disappointed. We’ve still got a long hard fall ahead in our city.
First, it was the multinationals that hightailed it back to Britain, France and Norway. Now, it’s the Canadian ones leaving. Yet this crisis still hasn’t truly permeated the noggins of some city leaders. They still blithely imagine this is one of those regular downturns from which Calgary always rebounds.
Well, this time it looks different. The storm clouds are over us and perhaps all we can expect is a sturdy rearguard action to delay what appears inevitable. Hopefully, such analysis is too gloomy, but better prepare for the worst and be relieved in the future, rather than rely on hope as a strategy.
So good on those councillors now pushing for a realistic trimming of future pay hike expectations among the civic unions. However, all the fiscal heavy lifting shouldn’t be confined to the city workforce.
For a city under siege, continuing with expensive construction plans hatched when things didn’t look anywhere near as bleak as today is silly. Maybe even plans for a new Flames arena — something I’ve always believed we should proceed with — need re-examining.
There’s nothing wrong with changing our minds when circumstances alter. It’s actually the smart thing to do and not some declaration of turning traitorous to a course of action that no longer makes sense.
Yes, this has always been a city that looked to the future, one that in a relatively short time has risen to become among the best places on earth in which to live.
But yesterday does not foretell tomorrow and right now we need to circle the wagons and watch every dime we spend as though it were our last.

        Chris Nelson is a regular columnist for the Calgary Herald.
      
