
# Vivo X30 with Exynos 980 SoC teased, to be unveiled in December - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:47:32+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/vivo-x30-with-exynos-980-soc-teased-to-be-unveiled-in-december/)

Vivo X30 with Exynos 980 SoC teased, to be unveiled in December1.7 (33.33%) 3 votes
The 5G connectivity is one that is still evolving, and there aren’t too many phones yet that can click to this blazing network. We have a few of them already on sale in China and we’ve known for a while now VIVO is working on a dual-mode 5G smartphone – the VIVO X30. The Chinese firm and Samsung mobile held a joint conference today, and instead of unveiling the device in full, the firm only gave us the tip of the iceberg.
Vivo at the event announced that the VIVO X30 smartphone will be officially unveiled in China next month. A specific date hasn’t been given yet. However, we now know that the device will be powered by an Exynos chipset, and not the Snapdragon chipset this time. The Exynos 980 8nm SoC with support for both SA and NSA dual-mode 5G will power the X30, and of course the VIVO X30 Pro. The Exynos 980 SoC has two high performing ARM Cortex-A77 cores and six efficient Cortex-A55 cores and ARM Mali-G76 MP5 GPU. The modem supports E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (EN-DC), which combines 2CC LTE and 5G connectivity, to maximize mobile downlink speed up to 3.55Gbps and 5G NR Sub-6GHz speeds of up to 2.55Gbps.
The X30 specs are still a well-kept secret, though there are rumors it has a Quad camera setup. It is tipped to get a 64MP rear main camera with 1/1.72″ Samsung GW1 sensor, 0.8μm pixel size, f/1.8 aperture, LED flash, a 13MP Telephoto lens for 5x  zoom, 8MP ultra-wide-angle lens, and a 2MP depth sensor. Other specs include a 32MP front camera, an in-display fingerprint scanner, a 4500mAh battery with 22.5W fast charging, while it will boot an unknow Android version with FuntouchOS. It is rumored to feature a 6.5-inch AMOLED displays with 90Hz refresh rate, HDR10+, and with Corning Gorilla Glass 5 protection.
The X30 Pro very much like the X30 will be powered by the same Exynos 980 SoC, but with a larger 6.89-inch AMOLED display with a 90Hz refresh rate. I t will retain the Quad camera arrangement, but now with a 60-megapixel + 13-megapixel + 13-megapixel + 2-megapixel. The battery size is tipped to be the same but will support 40W fast charging.
While no official date has been given for the release, leaks also suggest the X30 has a starting price of 3198 yuan (US$ 458, while the pro variant starts at 3998 yuan /US$ 570.
