
# Reader’s Voice: We Can Lose To Anyone But Chiefs!

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:04:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/supporters_club/reader-s-voice-we-can-lose-to-anyone-but-chiefs/666526)


        “Rhulani, My five year old lovely daughter hasn't seen us losing to Naturena faithful neh, and cannot happen anytime soon akere? So please do this for us, We're guaranteed a win...”
      
These were the pleas of Orlando pirates fan and SL Supporter @@ThizaK ahead of this weekend’s crunch Telkom Knockout semi-final encounter, for his club to overturn their dismal league campaign against their arch-rivals, Kaizer Chiefs.
Pirates narrowly won their midweek game against Highlands Park, although there were questions surrounding in-form Tshegofatso Mabasa’s winner. Despite this SL Supporter, @mzilikazi.com feels that regardless of their current form, Bucs are always dangerous in the derby.

        “Guys let’s not fool ourselves. No matter how bad Pirates are, when they play against Chiefs they perform very well. Check their ball possession tomorrow and attempts at goal.”
      
 Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
Meanwhile SL Supporter @Nhlaks tsh feels that if his side were to beat Chief, they have to field the team that managed to gain victory over Amakhosi in the Carling Black Label Cup.
 “Hey wena Rhulani, you must win this game. Bring back the Carling black label team and add Mabasa, Makaringe, and Mntambo. Chiefs have not beaten us in a very long time. Come on my boy. Choose the right players and we can beat them.”
 For all the talk about their possible turnaround against Chiefs @Mmaxongo feels that Amakhosi have too much firepower this time around.
 “Pirates have good record against Amakhosi in the previous encounters but this time around I don’t see them beating Amakhosi. We have a fearful partnership between Castro, Billiat and Nurkovic. I don’t see their back four dealing with those players in a high tempo game like this. You cannot plan for Middendorp he might surprise you.”
 

        Do you think Pirates can overturn their season if they beat Kaizer Chiefs this weekend?
      
 
