
# PNP thanks Filipinos for peaceful Undas

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:14:04+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/pnp-thanks-filipinos-peaceful-undas)

“We bring it back to the community. Nakita nila yung ginagawa ng pulis and they give it back. Actually, active participation ng community ang isa sa factors behind the very peaceful Undas,” Gamboa said.
Gamboa said  police law enforcement and public safety operations for the traditional observance of All Saints’ Day and All Souls’ Day culminated at midnight Sunday with no significant untoward incident reported in all 17 regions.
However, he said  PNP units manning PoliceAssistance Centers along national highways, major thoroughfares and public transportation hubs are under instructions to remain in their posts to provide continuous assistance to motorists and commuters returning to the urban centers from the long weekend holiday.
The official said the PNP National Operations Center reported a generally peaceful situation during the 3-day “Undas” holiday.
Gamboa said  police confiscated eight firearms in separate law enforcement operations in Metro Manila, Central Luzon, Cagayan Valley, Western Visayas, Caraga and Cordillera regions.
A case of a stolen motorcycle was reported in Central Luzon while two cases of possession of illegal drugs were reported in Metro Manila and Eastern Visayas.
Gamboa said  a total of 4,491prohibited items were confiscated  consisting of 3,361 bladed/pointed weapons and instruments, 977alcoholic beverages,71 assorted gambling paraphernalia and76 karaoke machines.
Gamboa said   the police security and public safety  applied in Undas served as a dry-run for upcoming national events such as the SEA Games and  Yuletide.
