
# Bilawal says democracy under threat, joins JUI-F’s Azadi March

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:47:26+00:00**

Author: **​ Our Correspondent**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2091249/1-bilawal-says-democracy-threat-joins-jui-fs-azadi-march/)

ISLAMABAD: Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Fazl’s Azadi March gained momentum as Pakistan Peoples Party Chairman Bilawal Bhutto shared stage with the JUI-F chief in a late-night address to the crowd.
In his address to the marchers, Bilawal said, “I am here to represent PPP whose founder gave a democratic Constitution in 1973. However, some forces do not want to see the people of Pakistan as a powerful force.”
“Today democracy is under attack and we are being ripped off from our democratic rights.”
Bilawal lauded the participants of the march and said, “This is a puppet government. Because of the rigged elections, an incompetent government was chosen.”
JUI-F Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman also welcomed participants to the Azadi March.
He thanked Awami National Party (ANP) President Asfandyar Khan Wali, PPP chairman Bilawal, PPP, PML-N and ANP workers as well all other parties’ workers.
Fazlur Rehman did not rule out the possibility of staging a sit-in in the federal capital to push for Prime Minister Imran Khan’s resignation.
The government has already beefed up security with the marchers’ arrival in Islamabad, deploying police and Rangers in Red Zone as well as Faizabad Interchange, Kashmir Highway and other locations.
The government has deployed 6,000 personnel of police and Rangers for the security of the protest’s venue in the H-9 area of Islamabad.
 
