
# Audi 'Lifetime Value Services' aftersales scheme launched

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soham Thakur**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/audi-lifetime-value-services-aftersales-scheme-launched-414774)

Audi's new service scheme includes extended warranty packages, Road Side Assistance up to 11 years and revamped plans.
In a bid to strengthen ownership experience, Audi India has introduced new aftersales packages under its ‘Lifetime Value Services’ scheme. This scheme includes extended warranty packages up to seven years, roadside assistance up to 11 years and flexible service plans up to 8 years.
Under this scheme, Audi customers with extended warranties on their cars can opt for an extension until the 7th year, provided their vehicle has done 1,00,000km or lower. Customers can buy the top-up extended warranty until 15 days before or after the expiration of the existing extended warranty. Additionally, customers can also opt for a one or two year top-up on their existing extended warranty.
Customers without active warranties can also avail some benefits under this scheme. As part of the ‘Anytime Extended Warranty’ plan, customers who don't have pre-existing warranties can purchase a one-year extended warranty from the 3rd year onwards until the 6th year. However, their Audi should have covered less than or equal to 100,000km, maintained as per Audi India guidelines and pass an evaluation process. A 7th year extension is also possible under this plan.
Audi has also revamped its service plans and they can now be availed by customers before the 30-day period based on their year of ownership. Customers can now purchase comprehensive service plans until the 20th month from the month of purchase of the car. The plans cover all component failures barring tyres and batteries.
Commenting on this initiative, Balbir Singh Dhillon, Head of Audi India, said, “With ‘Lifetime Value Services’ we are providing a package of best-in-class service benefits for Audi customers – with offers like Top-Up Extended Warranty and Flexible Service Plans for a seamless after-sales experience. We are also providing Road Side Assistance Coverage until the 11th year since car purchase – this is an industry-first proposition. We are confident that offers like these coupled with a team of service experts will ensure excellent luxury and service standards for all Audi customers.”
Recently, Audi India launched the latest-gen A6 sedan at Rs 54.20 lakh, which was followed by the launch of the facelifted A4, priced starting at Rs 42 lakh. The carmaker has also slashed prices of its Q5 and Q7 SUVs by Rs 5.9 lakh and Rs 6.1 lakh, respectively, but this is for a limited time only.

        
          All prices, ex-showroom, India
        
      
 
 
 
