
# Zidane Reignites 'Mbappe To Real' Rumours

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:59:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/zinedine-zidane-reignites-kylian-mbappe-to-real-madrid-rumours/666812)

Real Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane usually does not speak about Los Blancos' transfer targets, but he has now reignited rumours linking Kylian Mbappe with the Spanish giants.

        
          Click through the mini-gallery above to see Real's most expensive signings in history.
        
      
Mbappe has long been linked with a move to Real, but the LaLiga giants focused on other players in the most recent window.
However, it seems Mbappe could become the club's main target after the 2019/20 campaign, with Zidane, who is usually very coy when it comes to discussing players from other clubs, recently stating that the French wonderkid has made no secret of his desire to play for the Spanish club.

        Choose the right midfielder for SA’s Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt! 
      
"At the moment, Mbappe is a Paris Saint-Germain player, and we will see in the future what will happen," he said, as quoted by Marca.
"Mbappe always said that his dream was to play at Real Madrid."
The 20-year-old, whose current deal only expires in 2022, joined Les Parisiens on an initial loan deal in August 2017 before the French giants made the move permanent the following campaign.

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
Overall, they paid a reported €180 million (R2.95 billion) for his services, and Real will be expected to smash this fee if they want to lure him to the Santiago Bernabeu.
