
# Gay Byrne obituary

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:31:24+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Dixon**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/05/gay-byrne-obituary)


        Popular broadcaster who helped transform the way Irish people viewed their country
      
The TV and radio broadcaster Gay Byrne, who has died aged 85, leaves a unique legacy in Irish life. Byrne is sometimes credited with changing Ireland over several decades, but it is truer to say that he facilitated its transformation, giving citizens a voice to tease out the nation’s rebirth as the forces of conservatism crumbled and the grip of the Catholic church loosened. During his 37 years from 1962 as presenter and producer of the state broadcaster Raidió Teilifís Éireann’s flagship The Late Late Show, he allowed the sun to break through and illuminate some hard truths.
On the Late Late and in his daily radio shows he broke the silence in which these changes were taking place and mediated a national discourse about them. Byrne helped the Irish people establish who they now were, and who they could be, and in allowing public discussion became a potent liberator of the collective psyche. At exactly the moment Ireland needed him, he stepped up.
In many ways, the Late Late was a typical chat show – a song or two, quizzes with prizes, laughs from visiting stars such as Spike Milligan or Billy Connolly plugging books or tours – but in a small country there would never be enough celebrities to fill a weekly two-hour slot, so much of each show was devoted to a current affairs debate at a time of great social change, with an expert panel and audience participation.
During these sections Byrne switched adroitly from genial light entertainment host to steely interrogator. His technique was masterly: he would ask the hard question – the one viewers wanted – and when the inadequate or cliched response came he stayed silent, staring challengingly, until the guest blurted out something – often self-incriminating – to fill the vacuum.
Sometimes this led to absurdity, as when in 1966 the politician Oliver J Flanagan railed that there had been “no sex in Ireland until Teilifís Éireann went on the air”. The career of Ireland’s EU commissioner Pádraig Flynn nosedived when in 1999 he outlined the difficulties of keeping three houses, cars and housekeepers going on £140,000 a year; Ireland’s average industrial wage was just £15,380.
More seriously, Byrne defied the Catholic church’s rulings on birth control when he blithely unfurled a condom on the show. Women’s rights, lesbian nuns, alcoholism, domestic violence and HIV/Aids featured in other discussions.
In January 1984 a 15-year-old County Longford schoolgirl, Ann Lovett, went to a religious grotto and there, alone in the cold and under a statue of the Virgin Mary, gave birth. She and her baby son died. The nation was shocked. Hundreds of letters flooded in to Byrne’s morning radio show and were read out by him for hours – heartbreaking stories of abortions or giving birth alone and in secret. Once again, Byrne had instinctively picked the correct and most sensitive approach by giving a voice to women.
Part of the Late Late’s groundbreaking success came from its team of young journalists, researchers and technicians who did not care about the old taboos and were happy to lift the veil of secrecy that shrouded much of Irish life. He encouraged this, anticipating the new and more inclusive Ireland they represented.
Byrne himself was far from being a firebrand. In person he was conventional, fairly conservative politically, reserved, dapper and unfailingly polite. He seemed completely devoid of ego and even close colleagues said there was basically something unknowable about him. He was a professional to his fingertips and his agenda was to make a good programme, engage the audience and get good ratings.
“Give the people what they want,” was his mantra. He once said his favourite guest had been the actor Oliver Reed, who was outrageously drunk and tried to fondle a woman live on air. “The ratings went through the roof the following week,” Byrne commented; a week after that Reed returned to reflect on how dyslexia had affected his youth.
As Ann Marie Hourihane wrote in the Irish Times in 2014: “It is fair to say that the impact Byrne had on his native culture is unparalleled by any broadcaster in any other European country or, indeed, in any country on any other continent as far as we can tell.”
Born in Dublin, Gay (Gabriel) was the youngest of the four sons and one daughter of Edward Byrne and his wife Annie (nee Carroll). His father worked for the Guinness brewery and Gay attended the Christian Brothers school at Synge Street. He planned to continue his education at Trinity College Dublin, but when his father died he had to start work at an insurance company. He already had ambitions to enter show business, though, and in 1958 was taken on as a presenter on Raidió Éireann.
Around 1960 he briefly moved to the UK to further his career and became a presenter on Granada’s topical teatime news show People and Places at its Manchester studios, where he was one of the first to interview the Beatles live. He was also moonlighting for the BBC in London, and when Lord (Sidney) Bernstein, head of Granada, ordered him to desist he decided to move back to Ireland permanently.
“I remember around that period being at a party in London that was full of Irish people and we all decided to come back. And over the following few years we all did – one by one. There was such an air of optimism and vigour.”
In 1964 he married Kathleen Watkins, a presenter colleague, and the couple went on to adopt two daughters, Suzy and Crona.
Byrne was the hardest worker in Irish broadcasting, maintaining a gruelling regime of a daily radio show, and the Late Late, for decades. He also hosted many other shows, such as the annual Rose of Tralee contest. When he left the Late Late in 1999 (it continues, with other hosts) he made a variety of programmes until diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2016.
To the outside world he was the consummate broadcaster. To Ireland he was simply Gaybo, or even Uncle Gaybo. The man who understood, listened, and was trustworthy.
He is survived by Kathleen, his daughters and five grandchildren.
• Gay (Gabriel Mary) Byrne, broadcaster, born 5 August 1934; died 4 November 2019
