
# 39 women’s players list announced by Hockey India for Junior National Coaching Camp

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:59:05+00:00**

Author: **Press Release**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/hockey/2019/nov/03/39-womens-players-list-announced-by-hockey-india-for-junior-national-coaching-camp?utm_medium=rss)


        Hockey Indian has named a 39 women’s players list for the Junior National Coaching Camp scheduled to start from November 4, 2019, at Sports Authority of India, Bengaluru , who would report to coach Baljeet Singh Saini. This would be a preparation for the 3-nation tournament in Australia in December.
      
Hockey India today named the 39 Core Probables list for the upcoming Indian Junior Women's National Coaching Camp scheduled to begin on Monday, 04 November 2019. The players will report to Coach Baljeet Singh Saini at the Sports Authority of India, Bengaluru Campus for the National Coaching Camp which will conclude on 28th November 2019. 
The Core Probables list includes Goalkeepers Rashanpreet Kaur, Khushboo and F. Ramengmawii, Defenders Suman Devi Thoudam, Mahima Choudhary, Priyanka, Simran Singh, Marina Lalramnghaki, Gagandeep Kaur, Ishika Chaudhary, Jotika Kalsi, Sumita, Akshata Dhekale, Usha, and Parneet Kaur. While Bichu Devi Kharibam, Reet, Chetna, Baljeet Kaur, Mariana Kujur, Kirandeep Kaur, Prabhleen Kaur, Preeti, Ajmina Kujur, Vaishnavi Phalke, Kavita Bagdi, Baljinder Kaur and Sushma Kumari are the Midfielders called-up for the National Coaching Camp.
Among the Forwards, Sharmila Devi, Mumtaz Khan, Beauty Dungdung, Gurmail Kaur, Deepika, Lalrindinki, Jiwan Kishori Toppo, Rutuja Pisal, Sangita Kumari, Yogita Bora, and Annu have all been called-up for the National Coaching Camp.
The Indian Junior Women's Team is scheduled to play a 3-Nations Tournament starting 3 December 2019 in Australia where the team will face off against Australia and New Zealand. "The players were put under a strenuous training regime in their last camp in October and they have improved on various aspects tremendously. However, we are expecting tough challenges from Australia and New Zealand and therefore we have jotted a few more things that we need to work on in the next National Coaching Camp," said Saini. 
The Coach expressed his excitement of training with six players from the Senior Women Core Probables group. Suman Devi Thoudam, Bichu Devi Kharibam, Mahima Choudhary, Reet, Chetna, and Sharmila Devi, who are in the age of the Junior Women's Category, will add a different kind of experience to the Junior Women's National Coaching Camp.
"We are very excited to have six players from the Senior Women Core Probables group, as they can share their experience and guide the junior players in the right direction. The Indian Junior Women's Team played brilliantly during the tour of Belarus in June, but we have to perform even better in the 3-nation tournament in Australia. The team will gain a lot of confidence if they perform in a top hockey-playing nation such as Australia," stated Coach Baljeet Singh Saini ahead of the National Coaching Camp. 
CORE PROBABLES LIST: 

        GOALKEEPERS
      
1 Rashanpreet Kaur
2 Khushboo
3 F. Ramengmawii

        DEFENDERS
      
4 Priyanka
5 Simran Singh
6 Marina Lalramnghaki
7 Gagandeep Kaur
8 Ishika Chaudhary
9 Jotika Kalsi
10 Sumita
11 Akshata Dhekale
12 Usha
13 Parneet Kaur
14 Mahima Choudhary
15 Suman Devi Thoudam 

        MIDFIELDERS
      
16 Baljeet Kaur
17 Mariana Kujur
18 Kirandeep Kaur
19 Prabhleen Kaur
20 Preeti
21 Ajmina Kujur
22 Vaishnavi Phalke
23 Kavita Bagdi
24 Baljinder Kaur
25 Sushma Kumari
26 Reet
27 Chetna
28 Bichu Devi Kharibam   

        FORWARDS
      
29 Mumtaz Khan
30 Beauty Dungdung
31 Gurmail Kaur
32 Deepika
33 Lalrindinki
34 Jiwan Kishori Toppo
35 Rutuja Pisal
36 Sangita Kumari
37 Yogita Bora
38 Annu
39 Sharmila Devi
