
# Lady Gaga gets candid on self-harming and psychotic break

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:13:19+00:00**

Author: **Lesego Mkhize**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/lady-gaga-gets-candid-on-self-harming-and-psychotic-break-20191107)

Cape Town - The Oscar-winning star is no stranger to opening up about her mental health issues.
Only this time Lady Gaga revealed the reasons behind her self-harming episodes and suffering a psychotic break, E News reported.
In a recent interview with Oprah Winfrey for Elle magazine, the 33-year-old songstress, who’s opened up in the past before about the sexual abuse she suffered as a teen, revealed the different traumas she encountered throughout her career.
"I have PTSD. I have chronic pain. Neuropathic pain trauma response is a weekly part of my life. I’m on medication; I have several doctors. This is how I survive," she says.
Despite facing ongoing health issues, the When a Star is Born actress always kept going
Gaga continued to also beckon anyone who’s experiencing similar trauma to ask for help when they feel ready.
She encouraged people to be there for their loved ones if they see that they’re suffering. "Say, ‘Hey, I see you. I see that you’re suffering, and I’m here. Tell me your story’."
Lady Gaga also got candid about her past cutting experiences, according to Mirror.
"I’ve actually not opened up very much about this, but I think it’s an important thing for people to know and hear: I was a cutter for a long time," she admitted.
"I say that with a lot of humility and strength. I’m very grateful that I don’t do it anymore, and I wish to not glamorise it."
Yet self-harm doesn’t come close to the psychotic break she suffered which she described as, "one of the worst things that has ever happened," to her.
Having overcome her mental health issues and learning to live with them after believing there was no coming back from her trauma, Gaga stated that medicine and therapy, really do work.

        (Sources: 
        
          
            E! New
          
        
        
          
            s
          
        
        
          , 
        
        
          
            Elle
          
        
        
          , 
        
        Mirror)
      
