
# Report: Barca Identify Suarez's Replacement

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:02:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/laliga/report-barca-identify-suarez-s-replacement/666614)

With the clock ticking on Luis Suarez's career at FC Barcelona, reports from Spain claim the club have already identified a replacement for the Uruguayan.

        
          Read: 9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
With Suarez turning 33 next year, the club have reportedly begun planning for life after the Uruguayan who has been key to the club's success in recent years.
Spanish publication Mundo Deportivo claim that the Catalan giants have identified Inter Milan striker Lautaro Martinez as Suarez's long-term replacement.
The publication claims Martinez fits the ball for the Catalan giants, while he has no problem linking up with Lionel Messi which has been evident in the Argentine national side.
Inter manager Antonio Conte feels the 22-year-old still needs to work hard, despite the reported interest from the Spanish giants.
"He has to continue to work hard. Much of the transfer talk comes from that and it cannot be seen as a problem at this moment - there are bigger concerns," Conte was quoted as saying by Express.
"He must try to be more selfish when he has a chance to score. It's all part of his growth process. I want to improve all of my players."

        
          Read: Ronaldo Extends Ballon d'Or Record Over Messi
        
      
Do you think Martinez would be a good replacement for Suarez? Have your say in the comment section below.
