
# What happens if you eat blueberries everyday

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/food-news/what-happens-if-you-eat-blueberries-everyday/articleshow/71923432.cms)

The delicious taste and flavour of exotic berries are so enticing that they have paved their way to our delicacies. Be it sweet dishes, beverages or salads, berries can take your indulgent experience to the next level. No wonder, one of the most famous berries are blueberries as they can accentuate the taste of any delicacy they are added to, but have you ever wondered, what happens if you eat blueberries daily! Read on to know more about these little berries.
According to a few studies, a bowl of blueberries can help in boosting immunity and can reduce the risk of diabetes, obesity and heart diseases. Moreover, consuming a small portion of berries daily can help in strengthening the metabolism and prevent any kind of metabolic syndrome and deficiency. In fact, according to a research, it was observed that consuming berries over a period of 5 to 6 weeks, remarkably improved the metabolism of individuals dealing with low metabolic symptom.
Not only in terms of improving immunity, these little berries are very effective in fighting diabetes and can further regulate the sugar level and maintain a healthy triglyceride level in the body. A low metabolic syndrome can eventually impact the functioning of vital organs. A low metabolic syndrome is a medical term for obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure and this can affect the blood vessels too. It increases the risk of heart disease, stroke and other conditions affecting blood vessels.
Blueberries are a great source of antioxidants known as polyphenols, which help in protecting the cardiovascular cells and helps in lowering blood pressure. Moreover, these berries make for a nice healthy snack, which helps in regulating the sugar level in the body and can help in reducing the ill effects of diabetes.
As per a few researches, it has been observed that daily intake of blueberries in a controlled portion can help in reducing hypertension,inflammation, high cholesterol, glucose intolerance and insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction. However, too much of anything is not good for health and this is why a little addition of these berries can gradually improve health conditions. Moreover, blueberries are also known for improving cognitive skills.
Including berries in diet can help in improving your health holistically! However, cooking berries can reduce the nutritional aspect of these berries. Thus, it is always advised to eat them raw or in the form of beverages. So, eat healthy and stay healthy!
