
# Hope for ban on sick trophy hunt imports as talks begin on ending cruel 'sport'

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:45:17+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/hope-ban-sick-trophy-hunt-20805118)

A ban on sick trophy hunting imports is edging closer as a public consultation on stopping the sick souvenirs being brought to Britain gets underway.
Environment Minister Zac Goldsmith hit out at the vile practice as he announced a 12-week call for evidence which could lead to a crackdown.
Writing exclusively in the Mirror, he said he was “repulsed and baffled” at the senseless killing of big game as trophies.
Mr Goldsmith added: “I’m pleased we are able to launch this consultation to address the import and export of hunting trophies.”
 
The consultation will examine four options, including a ban on the import and export of hunting trophies from certain species and stricter requirements to demonstrate clear benefits to conservation and local communities.
More than 1,000 lions are killed every year, along with hippos, elephants, bears and rhinos by trophy hunters.
Campaign to Ban Trophy Hunting founder Eduardo Goncalves said: “British trophy hunters are among the worst in the world when it comes to shooting lions in captivity and elephants. Killing animals purely for pleasure and to show off a trophy has no place in a civilised society.”
The Mirror’s End Trophy Hunting campaign is supported by celebrities, MPs, peers and conservation charities.
Meanwhile a trophy hunting firm is offering a sickening buy one, get one free package – throwing in a lioness if a customer pays to shoot a lion.
The offer at Mkulu African Hunting Safaris comes as wildlife experts warn cheap air fares and falling tour prices are making the vile pursuit affordable to far more people.
The advert boasts: “Book a lion hunt with us and add a lioness at no extra cost.”
Eduardo Goncalves, of the Campaign to Ban Trophy Hunting, said: “Business is booming for the trophy industry.
“Before, it was just the landed gentry and army colonels who went on hunting safaris.
“Today, it’s gas engineers, utility company customer service managers, NHS suppliers, internet provider supervisors and even pensioners jetting off to kill wild animals for fun.
