
# US will leave Paris climate accord, Trump administration tells UN, starting one-year timetable for withdrawal

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:55:32+00:00**

Author: **Josh Siegel**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/energy/trump-tells-un-he-is-breaking-with-paris-climate-accord)

The Trump administration is starting the process of leaving the Paris climate agreement, setting in motion a long-anticipated move to become the first country to exit the pact.
The State Department filed a notice Monday of its intention to the U.N. secretary-general. Under the terms of the agreement, the United States had to wait until Monday to submit the paperwork even though President Trump announced in June 2017 that he rejected the deal.
"President Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement because of the unfair economic burden imposed on American workers, businesses, and taxpayers by U.S. pledges made under the Agreement," Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement.
Filing the paperwork starts a one-year countdown for the actual withdrawal that can become official one day after the November 2020 presidential election.
That one-year lag could provide an opportunity for other countries to persuade Trump to change his mind, but that’s unlikely given his long-standing opposition. Still, the State Department will continue to send delegations to international climate talks in the meantime, including this December’s technical negotiations held by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
"In international climate discussions, we will continue to offer a realistic and pragmatic model — backed by a record of real world results — showing innovation and open markets lead to greater prosperity, fewer emissions, and more secure sources of energy," Pompeo said. "We will continue to work with our global partners to enhance resilience to the impacts of climate change and prepare for and respond to natural disasters."
All countries of the world except the U.S. under the Trump administration have committed to the Paris accord, under which nations set their own nonbinding targets for reducing carbon emissions.
The U.S. plan, which the Obama administration submitted in 2015, set the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26% to 28% by 2025.
Nat Keohane, senior vice president of the Environmental Defense Fund, said he expects Monday's announcement to result in little change on the ground.
"The big change was when Trump made that announcement — not when we pass a formal deadline," he told the Washington Examiner. "At the political level, the U.S. has effectively been a no-show under this administration, and the rest of the world has responded accordingly: by moving on."
