
# Priyanka Chopra gets trolled for her mask pic, social media says ‘yeah that cigarette you smoke won’t kill you’

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:48:52+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/priyanka-chopra-gets-trolled-for-her-mask-pic-social-media-says-yeah-that-cigarette-you-smoke-wont-kill-you/articleshow/71885864.cms)

Priyanka Chopra is currently in Delhi as she shoots for one of her upcoming projects alongside Rajkummar Rao. Due to the alarming Delhi pollution crisis, The 'Sky Is Pink' actress took to her micro-blogging site and shared a selfie with a mask. Through the post which was shared yesterday, she expressed how difficult it is to cope up with the air pollution and thanked the team for providing air purifiers and masks. The actress also asked her fans to stay safe from the pollution and prayed for the unprivileged who stay on the streets. However, this particular post by the actress didn't go down well with some of the social media users as she got trolled.
Apart from receiving good comments from her fans, the post was also bashed with some nasty comments which took a dig at her cigarette smoking habit. While some asked her to stay safe as she suffers from Asthama, some taunted her for the cigarette she smokes.
Check out the comments here:
A while ago, pictures from Priyanka and Nick's Miami vacation went viral. Priyanka who was diagnosed with asthma at the age of five, was brutally trolled after pictures of her smoking went viral. The global star had received flak from a section of social media users over a photograph that showed her smoking. While the trolls slammed the actress, a section of Twitter users defended her saying everyone can make their own choices.

        Read this story in Bengali
      
