
# Telegraph issues correction over Boris Johnson's false UK economy claim

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:31:36+00:00**

Author: **Jim Waterson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/nov/03/telegraph-forced-to-issue-correction-to-boris-johnson-column)


        Claim UK would overtake Germany was former columnist’s own extrapolation, says newspaper
      
The Daily Telegraph has been forced to correct a column written by Boris Johnson, after he falsely claimed the UK is set to “become the largest and most prosperous economy in this hemisphere”.
The newspaper said that Johnson misrepresented long-term economic projections to give the impression that the British economy would overtake Germany “in our lifetimes” – despite no such data existing.
Instead, the Telegraph admitted the claim was based on Johnson looking at a real economic forecast from the inter-governmental OECD organisation and predicting himself how the trends would continue.
As a result, the claim “was the columnist’s own extrapolation of this data beyond the timeframe of the forecast”, the newspaper said.
In addition, the newspaper admitted that the real economic data was only based on European countries, so in any case it could not justify Johnson’s claim about the UK economy outperforming all nations in the northern hemisphere.
Johnson’s suggestion that the UK economy would overtake Germany “in our lifetimes” may also be up for debate, given that the legitimate OECD forecast only looked ahead to 2060. As a result, on the current predictions, even when Johnson is 94 years old the British economy would still be lagging some way behind its continental counterpart.
The false claim was made in a column Johnson wrote in June shortly before he became prime minister about the failings of the British education system.
This is the third time this year that the Daily Telegraph has been forced to issue a correction to material by Johnson, its star £275,000-a-year columnist, who is currently on leave from the news outlet while he serves as prime minister.
In April the newspaper was forced to correct his claim that a no-deal Brexit was the most popular option among the British public, while this summer it partially corrected his claims about a convicted drug dealer. All the corrections followed successful complaints to the press regulator Ipso.
Johnson was notorious at the Daily Telegraph for writing his column during a brief window on Sunday afternoons, before sending it to the outlet for publication in Monday’s print edition. His copy would often arrive shortly before the Telegraph’s print deadline, leaving little time for editors to make changes and fact-check his claims, according to individuals who had to deal with it.
In his absence the newspaper’s owners, the Barclay brothers, have tentatively begun the process of putting the outlet up for sale, shortly after they saw its profits crash in the middle of a turnaround plan to make it a digitally-focused news outlet.
The Sunday Times has reported that Steve Bannon, Donald Trump’s former chief strategist, would be interested in buying it – although such a deal is unlikely, given there is no sign that Bannon has either the money or the team required to complete such a deal.
• This article was amended on 4 November 2019. An earlier version incorrectly referred to Steve Bannon as Donald Trump’s “former chief of staff”.
