
# SAFA president weighs in on Benni being sacked

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:55:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/safa-president-weighs-in-on-benni-being-sacked-20191106)

Cape Town – The South African Football Association (SAFA) president Danny Jordaan has surprisingly commented on Benni McCarthy being sacked as head coach of Cape Town City.
According to KickOff, Jordaan was asked his thoughts on the Citizens ending their relationship with the former Bafana Bafana striker.
"Let me read first and understand what’s going on,” Jordaan said while attending an urgent SAFA press conference in Johannesburg following Russell Paul's resignation as acting CEO of the association.
"As I say, I don't know what’s in his mind; I don’t know what happened (that led to his departure), so I cannot talk about it."
Jordaan was then probed into answering whether McCarthy could fill a role within the association’s structures.
"I don't know what his next steps or move is, we'll have to wait and see. He's a South African; he's a coach in this country and that’s why I say it's not the end of his career.
"He's still in the beginning of his career but I don’t have the details, so let me not speak on something that I don’t have the facts around.
"There are too many ifs. Let us sort out the ifs and then I can give you an answer. I can't go on the route to speculate - if it rains; if the sun shines."

        
          - Compiled by Tashreeq Vardien
        
      
