
# In From The Cold – Lifelines For These Chiefs Stars?

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-have-opened-the-door-for-some-players/666964)

Ernst Middendorp opted to switch things up for last night’s clinical win over Chippa United, and he may well have thrown a lifeline to a number of Kaizer Chiefs players with uncertain futures…

        Read: 17 Shots To Make Amakhosi Smile As Chiefs Sprint Towards Title
      
The Glamour Boys are flying high at the top of the Absa Premiership table at present, and last night’s results saw them extend their lead to a whopping seven points with a third of the season gone.
Chiefs are currently enjoying their best league start since their title-winning 2014/15 campaign, and Middendorp will be delighted that – even with eight changes – they were able to pick up another three points in Port Elizabeth.
Willard Katsande, Daniel Cardoso and Samir Nurkovic were the only three players that survived from the XI that started against Orlando Pirates in the Telkom Knockout over the weekend, with several fringe players being given the chance to impress.
The likes of Dumsani Zuma – who went on to score both goals in the 2-0 victory – as well as Philani Zulu, Kgotso Moleko and Siyabonga Ngezana were given a starting berth for the first time in 2019/20, though all had varying report cards.

        Read: Five Chiefs Internationals Set To Leave
      
Meanwhile, others such as Ramahlwe Mphahlele and Kabelo Mahlasela made rare appearances in the matchday squad and Bruce Bvuma was given the nod to start for the first time since August.

        Do you think anyone staked their claim for a more regular spot last night? 
      
