
# McDonald’s CEO Steve Easterbrook Fired Over Consensual Relationship With Employee

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Isabel Togoh**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/isabeltogoh/2019/11/04/mcdonalds-ceo-steve-easterbrook-fired-over-consensual-relationship-with-employee/?utm_source=FBPAGE&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2796895612&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainFB)

Topline: McDonald’s CEO Steve Easterbrook—credited with turning around the fast food giant—has been fired after he broke company rules by having a consensual relationship with an employee.
Tangent: Intel chief Brian Krzanich was fired last year for having an affair with a subordinate. While romantic manager-employee relationships are not illegal, companies often introduce no-dating policies to avoid allegations of preferential treatment or lawsuits arising from unwanted advances or sexual harassment. Some companies introduce a consensual relationship agreement that require manager and employee to agree that the relationship will not interfere at work.
In August, McDonald's announced a new staff training program, starting in October, focused on workplace training and harassment in response to scrutiny around how it handles sexual harassment in restaurants.
Key background: The 52-year-old businessman, who has been at the helm of the fast food giant since 2015, has been credited with overhauling the iconic burger chain through unveiling new-look restaurants, menus, eco-friendly policies and raising employee pay
Easterbrook first joined the chain in 1993 and worked his way up the company before leaving in 2011 to head up other popular food chains, including Pizza Express and Wagamama.
He rejoined as head of the U.K. business in 2013 and under his tenure oversaw a raft of changes that drove growth in the U.K. arm before being appointed CEO two years later. Under his leadership, shares almost doubled, reaching an all-time high of $221.15 per share earlier this summer.
Easterbrook had also faced criticism for his compensation, which totaled almost $16 million last year, while his pay reached a peak of $21.8 million in 2017, a figure thousands of times the median $7,500 salary of McDonald’s restaurant employees. The firm also fell short of earnings estimates last month as it struggled to compete with other fast food giants such as Wendy’s and Restaurants Brands International, owner of Burger King and Popeyes.
