
# It’s The Dirty Picture, but it isn’t about Silk Smitha

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Y Maheswara Reddy**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/its-the-dirty-picture-but-it-isnt-about-silk-smitha/articleshow/71945283.cms)

For over 10 years, abandoned cinema hall in Wilson Garden has become the area’s unofficial trash can and buildings nearby have been losing tenants Residents of Bengaluru, especially those residing in 6th Main Road, Wilson Garden, were happy when the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) announced earlier this year that they would penalise vacant site owners if they failed to clean up their site. Most of the vacant sites around the city are either strewn with garbage or overgrown with weed. An abandoned cinema hall (Hari Lakshmi theatre) on 6th Main Road, Wilson Garden has been turned into a dumping ground for garbage over the last 10 years. Though accumulation of garbage has become a regular thing here, the BBMP has allegedly not made any attempt to either remove it or take action against the landowner. “Over the last 10 years, we have been running from pillar to post to ensure cleanliness here, but in vain. We have been meeting the BBMP health department officials and elected representatives, but our grievances have not been redressed,’’ said G Mukunda Reddy, a resident of the area. Additionally, the BBMP’s health department has been using the road adjacent to the defunct cinema hall to shift garbage from auto-tippers to the compactor. Moreover, the health inspectors do not insist on conservancy workers using a plastic mat or tarpaulin sheet on the spot to avoid garbage spilling onto the road. “There have been instances of leachate leaking from stationary auto-tippers. Also, a few irresponsible autorickshaw drivers use this place as an open urinal. I am unable to get tenants for my vacant building due to this black spot,’’ said V Chandrasekhar, a building owner.
.
Expressing concern over the delay in removal of the trash from the road adjacent to the defunct cinema theatre, Sidda Reddy, a landlord, said that he has been losing rent worth Rs 1 lakh every month. “Three portions of the building have been vacant for more than a year. Tenants come here looking for houses but none of them want to stay in buildings on this road due to the bad odour emanating from the accumulated garbage. My mother has been admitted to a hospital for lung infection. I am residing here since I have no other option,’’ he said. Meanwhile, a BBMP health inspector said that chicken stall owners dump animal slaughter waste at the site. “I have requested the higher authorities to post a few marshals to keep a vigil on dumping of animal slaughter waste. In Sudhamanagar, too, the residents were facing a similar situation. After the deployment of a few marshals, Sudhamanagar has become clean,’’ said a BBMP health inspector. Hombegowda Nagar ward Corporator D Chandrappa said that he would ask BBMP’s health inspectors to direct the conservancy workers to use a mat or tarpaulin sheet to avoid garbage from spilling onto the road. “We have no other place for shifting garbage from auto-tippers to the compactor,’’ said the corporator. As per the order issued in May, the civic body will clear debris and garbage from vacant sites and collect Rs 25,000 as penalty from the site owners if the latter fail to clean it.
