
# Late agony once again for Livingston as they fall to Motherwell defeat

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:36:17+00:00**

Author: **Callum Carson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/callum-carson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/late-agony-once-again-livingston-20798199)

Livingston boss Gary Holt admits his side need to start turning performances into points as they fell to a 2-1 defeat at Motherwell.
The loss means it's just one win in the last nine Premiership games for the Lions despite a number of battling displays.
And he will once again be feeling his side deserved a share of the spoils this afternoon.
Despite a lengthy injury-list, which prevented the visitors from naming a full bench, they appeared set for a point after Steven Lawless had netted a penalty following Chris Long's opener two minutes into the second half.
But Allan Campbell poked the ball home in a congested penalty box with seven minutes remaining to ensure Stephen Robinson's men took all three points.
Holt said: "It's a kick in the teeth. I can't keep saying 'unlucky'. I thought that for a bare bones squad today we were, to a man, excellent.
"I said don't panic when Motherwell have possession because we'll get it back and then we have to hit them and I thought we did that at times in the game.
"But we have to be more professional and we have to be savvy to see games out. At the end of the day, we'd take a point and that's the disappointing thing."
He added: "But I can't keep praising a defeat. Effort, commitment, desire, putting their body on the line for the cause, I can't fault them.
"I'd rather sometimes be saying that we were garbage and we got the points. We have to learn from it quickly. It's the fine lines because being unlucky doesn't keep you in this league."
Holt was without a string of players which meant a first league start of the season for both Scott Tiffoney and Steve Lawson - the latter fresh off signing a contract extension until the summer of 2021.
Livingston created the first opportunity on seven minutes when Hakeem Odoffin’s ball across the face of goal eventually found Tiffoney but the youngster’s strike in a congested penalty area was deflected over the bar.
For all Motherwell were controlling possession, they were creating nothing with it and it was Livi who would again go the closest to breaking the deadlock midway through the first half as Tiffoney jinked his way past three would be tackles before fizzing a strike from 20 yards that was tipped wide by Mark Gillespie.
Jermaine Hylton shot tamely at Matija Sarkic from 25 yards moments later at the other end. The Montenegrin keeper had to be more alert on 37 minutes after neat build-up play by the hosts led to Chris Long’s thunderous strike from 20 yards stinging the keeper’s palms.
The Well man would win that match up two minutes into the second half, though it was thanks to a calamitous error as Sarkic let a seemingly harmless Long strike from 12 yards out squirm through his grasp and roll into the net.
He would be bailed out on the hour mark as Livi levelled things up from the penalty spot. Tiffoney did well to control the ball before being adjudged to have been clipped by Devante Cole with referee Euan Anderson pointing to the spot.
That prompted Steven Lawless’ arrival as he replaced Keaghan Jacobs and duly the slammed the ball high into the roof of the net with his first touch.
The visitors now had their tails up and almost went in front two minutes later but Gillespie was alert to palm a Tiffoney angled drive wide.
Robinson introduced James Scott and Sherwin Seedorf as the hosts went searching for all three points.
It almost arrived 14 minutes from time when a heavy Long touch ended up sitting perfectly for Campbell on the edge of the box but his drive went beyond Sarkic’s right-hand post.
Campbell wouldn’t be denied with seven minutes remaining, though, as he was the beneficiary of a bit of pinball in and around then penalty area, slamming the ball beyond Sarkic from close range for the winner.
Livi would miss a glorious chance to pick up a third draw of the week with in the final minute as Jon Guthrie's wonderful flick-on found Lawson unmarked on the left-hand side of the box. The Togo international appeared to delay his effort and then was unable to beat Gillespie as the Lions went home empty-handed.
