
# Anna Flyaway (pre-Empire! Empire!) unearth lost LP for release (stream a track)

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Sacher**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/anna-flyaway-pre-empire-empire-unearth-lost-lp-for-release-stream-a-track/)

Before the now-defunct Empire! Empire! (I Was A Lonely Estate) became one of the key bands of the first wave of the emo revival, vocalist/multi-instrumentalist Keith Latinen led the band Anna Flyaway, which Keith started in 2005 as a solo project and which eventually became a six-piece band. They recorded an album, but quietly broke up before releasing it, and now Keith has “retrieved the files from his ancient laptop” and he’s finally giving the LP a proper release. It’s called Tomorrow I Will Take a Knife to Your Confidence, and it was newly mixed by Mat Halliday (Empire! Empire!, Fireworks) and mastered by Dave Downham (Beach Slang, Into It. Over It.). We’re premiering the song “Every Time You Breathe In, You Breathe out (And Then, One Day, You Won’t),” and if you like Empire! Empire! — or the bands that inspired them like Mineral, American Football, Knapsack, The Promise Ring, etc — you’re probably gonna like this immediately. It has that instantly satisfying sound that this style of emo always has when it’s done right. Here’s what Keith tells us about this song:
The album is coming out on November 22 via Keith and Cathy Latinen’s label Count Your Lucky Stars. Stream the new song and check out the full tracklist below…
