
# LIVE ISL 2019-20 | Mumbai City FC vs FC Goa - Match 17

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:05:35+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/07/live-isl-2019-20-mumbai-city-fc-vs-fc-goa-match-17?utm_medium=rss)


        Mumbai City FC will host FC Goa at the Mumbai Football Arena on Thursday. The Gaurs are unbeaten with five points in three games while the Islanders have four points in three games. However, both teams have injury problems with Mumbai City FC missing many of their key foreign players.
      
Mumbai City FC started well with four points from two away games against Kerala Blasters and Chennaiyin, before they came back and opened their home campaign with a loss to newcomers Odisha FC, 4-2. The newcomers were seen completely dominating the Islanders, who also got their first points of the season.
FC Goa are unbeaten with five points now after they started their season with a dominating 3-0  win against Chennaiyin FC’s backyard before drawing consecutive games against defending champions Bengaluru and NorthEast United. Even though, the Gaurs dominated most of these matches they missed several goal-scoring chances in the front.
Both teams will be looking to come back to winning ways and it would be a steep task for both as well as the managers won’t be able to field a fully-fit side. However, Mumbai would suffer more as most of their key foreigners are injured.
Tunisian midfielder Muhammed Larbi has created many chances for Mumbai and his partnership with fellow countryman Amine Chermiti will be crucial for the hosts. They need to fire up in the absence of Paulo Machado and Modu Suogou. 
Goa are still heavily relying on ISL all-time top scorer Ferran Corominas. Although the Spaniard missed some golden chances in the last games, he is the man for Goa.  Midfielders Hugo Boumous and Ahamed Jahouh are also vital players for Sergio Lobera against top sides. Lobera also has young Indian brigade including Brandon Fernandes and Jackichand Singh who could make a world of difference.
Jorge Costa will have a tough day to fill the squad with foreigners  Mato Grgic and Modou Sougou were already missing with injuries when Rowlin Borges added himself to the list. Indian defender Souvik Chakraborty, who missed the last match against Odisha due to suspension, may come back to defensive duties.
Seiminlen Doungel was given marching orders against NorthEast United in the final minutes will miss the match. Sergio Lobera may also not field Edu Bedia in the midfield owing to an injury.

        Head to Head
      
Both teams have faced each other twelve times with Goa leading with 5 wins including the semifinal final win against Mumbai in Mumbai last season, while Mumbai won four games and the remaining three went on to draw.
Mumbai City FC: L-D-W
FC Goa: D-D-W
Mumbai City FC:Amrinder Singh, Souvik Chakraborty, Sarthak Golui, Pratik Chaudhari, Subhasish Bose, Rowlin Borges, Raynier Fernandes, Paulo Machado. Diego Carlos, Amine Chermiti, Mohamed Larbi.
FC Goa: Mohammad Nawas, Seriton Fernandes, Mourtada Fall, Carlos Pena, Mandar Rao Desai, Ahmed Jahouh, Lenny Rodrigues, Hugo Boumous, Jackichand Singh, Brandon Fernandes, Ferran Corominas.

        Jorge Costa
      
The Portuguese coach is on his second stint in India after he led Mumbai City to the playoffs last season. He has also played for the Portugal national team as a defender and has also coached several clubs in Europe. He will be looking to continue his team’s last season form and hope to deliver silverware this season.

        Sergio Lobera
      
The Spanish coach who is India for the third year has built a successful side. Lobera has a vast experience in Spain with managing La Liga giants Barcelona youth side. The Spanish gaffer lost to Bengaluru FC in the last year ISL final but won the Super Cup before the season ended. The Goan fans expect nothing less than the ISL title this year.
