
# The 10 Best Exclusive PS4 Games Of All Time

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/03/the-10-best-exclusive-ps4-games-of-all-time/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2819298489&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with
        
        
          
             Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
We are nearing the end of the lifespan of PS4, as it only has a year left until the PS5 arrives. But until then, you should take advantage of what is one of the best exclusive rosters of games in history for a specific console. These are games that you can only play on PS4, not Xbox or Switch (though a few have snuck onto PC), and I have ranked them in order of how good I think they are, which I’m sure will be debated.
Here are the ten best PS4 exclusive games of all time.
I’ll start with one game that’s probably under the radar and many people have not played. Until Dawn is a cinematic story game that has a house full of friends being stalked by a killer. The choices you make will determine who lives and dies, and how everything plays out by the end. It’s easy to overlook, but hard to forget if you’ve actually played it. And it has Oscar winner Rami Malek in it!
It is no surprise that further up this list you will find Bloodborne, but Nioh is essentially the “samurai Dark Souls” that is incredibly challenging, and you could make the case it’s actually a lot tougher than Bloodborne. Technically this is cheating, because Nioh is also on PC, but it’s not going to be on Xbox any time soon, so I’m keeping it here.
I almost put The Last Guardian here, but honestly, the remastered version of Shadow of the Colossus is better. The Last Guardian just couldn’t quite recapture the magic of SotC, though it did try, but I thought that it was better for people to revisit that game over The Last Guardian as it’s simply more of a classic.
This is another remastered entry, which could be higher if I thought it wasn’t pushing it by being a remake in the first place. The Last of Us is simply an incredible game, and by the time the PS4 takes its curtain call, you will absolutely see lists like this with The Last of Us 2 on it. But for now, it’s worth it to play the remaster as it holds up over time and is a story worth experiencing.
It may take a unique appreciation for this genre to like Persona 5, but despite being the fifth in the series, if you give it a chance it’s more accessible than you’d think and absolutely a game that any PS4 player should take on. If you have a spare 80 hours or so, that is. It may be an investment, but it’s worth your time, and you’ll love the cast and maybe the entire series by the end.
Despite a reportedly troubled development, Uncharted 4 is definitely the best in the series besides perhaps Uncharted 2, and even that is debatable. It’s a great story, and probably the best-looking game I’ve ever played, with some of the most rich most detailed environments in video game history. And it’s a worthy farewell for Nathan Drake, because if Uncharted returns, it won’t be with him.
Horizon always looked visually gorgeous in previews, but futuristic tribal people hunting robot dinosaurs seemed like an idea that could have gone very wrong. But in the end, Horizon manages to be incredibly fun while actually telling an enormously interesting science fiction story in the process. It also created one of the best new video games icons of the generation in the form of Aloy, which is a rarity in this day and age.
Bloodborne may not be for everyone, but for the Dark Souls crowd, it’s nothing short of a holy grail game. It has the brutal difficulty of that series paired with a much more aggressive combat style. The world is horrifying, as are the monsters, as are you, the hero, frankly. But it’s an unforgettable experience that everyone should attempt to beat at least once.
While not a movie tie-in, Spider-Man stands alone as a great story for the hero, even if it’s not Into the Spider-Verse or Homecoming, and a fantastically fun game that is Insomniac at its best. It has never felt this good to be a superhero, perhaps short of Rocksteady’s Arkham games, and this is a game that is just an absolute blast to play for every single moment you have a controller in hand.
Far and away, if you ask most people what the best PS4 exclusive has been of this past generation, most will tell you that it’s God of War. Technically God of War 4, the game is a complete reimagining of the series in a way that could have gone poorly but instead elevated it to new heights. The storytelling, the visuals, the combat—it is truly unmatched in the medium, and you could make the case it might be the best game of this generation.
