
# Costco Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First Deals

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/04/costco-black-friday-2019-apple-macbook-samsung-galaxy-s10-note10-laptop-dell-hp-deals/)

Costco’s Black Friday ad has leaked and it reveals some major surprises, particularly on smartphones where Costco looks to have the best Galaxy S10, Note 10 deal of any store. This is a huge step up from its weak showing last year and now Costco has gone a step further because its first Black Friday deals are live. Note: you can find my Black Friday 2019 guides to the current live sales from Amazon (here), from Best Buy (here), from Target (here) and from Walmart (here). I have also done roundups of the best live Apple deals and biggest Samsung savings.

        Best Buy Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Costco Black Friday 2019: Best Current Live Sales 
      
Yes, Costco is serious about Black Friday 2019 and these deals will prove to be just the tip of the iceberg with the aforementioned killer Galaxy S10/Note 10 deal set to be the highlight of Black Friday. Where Costco differentiates, it the amount of deals on products from premium brands compared to the likes of Amazon, in particular, which is pushing a lot of very cheap TV deals from obscure brands.
One area where Costco shoppers need to be careful, however, is shipping. The company is offering slower shipping than most rivals and you will need to be a member to get access to the very top sales. 
Note: I’ve picked out my top Costco TV deals, but the store also has a wide range of time-limited sale which are live now. 
If you’d like to shop more Black Friday deals right now, check out my guides to Amazon’s early live deals, Best Buy’s live deals, Walmart’s live deals and my roundups of the best Apple deals and biggest Samsung savings you can capitalise on today. 
I will be extensively tracking Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2019 deals and publishing the best offers daily, so be sure to bookmark my page.
___
Follow Gordon on Twitter and Facebook 

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
