
# I'm A Celeb's Danny Baker urges Ian Wright to get voted out first so he can have a holiday

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:30:10+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/im-celebs-danny-baker-urges-20830134)

Former I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here star Danny Baker gave Ian Wright some jungle tips.
The presenter, who was booted off the show first in 2016, advised his pal to get voted out as soon as possible so he can reap the rewards of a five-star two-week holiday.
TV bosses put the personalities up in the swanky Palazzo Versace Gold Coast hotel when they have been evicted from the snake-infested jungle, in Australia.
Having spent the minimal amount of time in the jungle, Danny described his experience as the "second best ever gig" he has ever had.
The reality star lauded it for being "tremendous" and he enthused he had the time of his life.
He told The Daily Star : "If you're going to come out of the Jungle then come out first. You're going to have the time of your life.
"It's a sweet gig and I've had some sweet gigs. I've been to World Cups and had my life story made into films and stuff. The second best ever gig was the Jungle - it was tremendous...
"You'll have a snake on your head, you look at the crew and they're all laughing. You're not on your own."
Danny was axed from the BBC over a tweet about the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's baby earlier this year.
The BBC 5 live presenter tweeted and deleted an image of a couple holding hands with a chimpanzee dressed in clothes.
He captioned the picture in bad taste: "Royal Baby leaves hospital."
At the time, Danny apologised on social media for the "stupid unthinking gag pic".
The BBC issued the statement: "[Danny Baker's tweet] goes against the values we as a station aim to embody.
"Danny's a brilliant broadcaster but will no longer be presenting a weekly show with us."
