
# Predictions 2020: Agencies Will Upgrade Or Fade Away

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forrester**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forrester/2019/11/04/predictions-2020-agencies-will-upgrade-or-fade-away/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

As 2019 draws to a close, CMOs and agency leaders turn their attention to a decisive 2020. This will be the year that agencies of every size and type finally take up the task of deconstructing and reassembling their model in the face of economic uncertainty, looming regulatory action, and a compounding pressure to both perform and transform simultaneously — or risk falling further into irrelevance.In 2020, anticipate that agencies, under the guidance of new, operational-minded leaders, will reshape their processes and capabilities around centralized structures that can deliver services in a coordinated manner. Our predictions for the year ahead include:
Many agencies cautiously began down this path years ago by adjusting offerings conducive to project-based engagements and adding discrete data management, customer experience, or consulting practice layers. These are important steps, but they’re reactionary and too slow to build for real change. One C-suite holding company executive told Forrester, “Our single biggest challenge is change management. Change freaks people out.” The speed of the 2020 agency transformation will determine the viability of agencies’ futures. Every employee must embrace the rapid value upgrade that agencies bring to clients. Otherwise, they will fade further into irrelevance.
Read Forrester’s Predictions 2020 report on agencies for a complete assessment of what agencies will face in the coming year.
