
# Stonehouse actress is Belle in Motherwell panto Beauty and the Beast

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:19:10+00:00**

Author: **Andy McGilvray, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andy-mcgilvray/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/stonehouse-actress-belle-motherwell-panto-20834723)

A Stonehouse actress hopes to get people in the Christmas spirit by starring in a major panto.
Brooke Thomson will play Belle in Beauty and the Beast, which runs at Motherwell Concert Hall from November 17 until January 12, 2020.
The 22-year-old, who is a guest teacher at Motherwell’s Jazzart UK, has been performing all of her life, and can’t wait to take on the major role in Spillers Pantomimes’ new show.
Brooke said: “Every year I always try to get myself involved with panto, as I love it!
“For this one I went down to London, where the auditions were being held, and I was told later on that I had got the role of Belle – I was delighted!
“I am so excited for it all to begin, there is such a wonderful, talented team of people that I am getting to work with, and the show itself is going to be incredible.
“Audiences can expect a magic, fun-filled, captivating show, with loads of fascinating characters.
“The show has everything, it explores comedy, adventure, anticipation, emotion and, of course, romance.
“It has loads of fun dancing and singing, the kids and adults will love it, and no doubt they will leave humming all the catchy songs with a smile on their faces – it’s exactly what you need to get into the Christmas mood.
“I haven’t started rehearsals just yet, we begin on November 7. I can’t wait to get into rehearsals now and work with an amazing cast and crew.”
Former Stonehouse Primary and Larkhall Academy pupil Brooke has been preparing for a role like this for her entire life, and hopes it leads to an extended career.
“I have been performing since I was a tiny tot,” she said. “I began dancing when I was only three, and then as I got older I got very passionate about singing and acting.
“At the age of 12, I got more involved in musical theatre and started going to Jazzart UK in Motherwell, where I trained.
“I did New Lanark panto last year, and the year before, which I enjoyed. Then, when I was training full time at Jazzart UK, I also did panto, where we got to tour primary schools.
“For the future, I hope to have the opportunity to be involved in further performances, pantos and productions that will allow me to entertain people and showcase the full extent of my ability.
“I’d love to also get involved in TV; I find both stage and TV engaging, exciting, and I am at my happiest when performing.”
Beauty and the Beast runs from November 17 to January 12 at Motherwell Concert Hall, and also stars Ian ‘Sheepie’ Smith as Lumiere, Liam Webster as Prince/Beast, Titus Rowe as Bouffant du Quiff, Tommy Hart as Professor Maurice and Tracey Mair as Fairy le Fou.
For tickets or performance times, visit culturenl.co.uk/pantomime/
