
# Super-featherweight title fight an option for Carl Frampton if he passes Las Vegas comeback test

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/boxing/2019/11/05/news/super-featherweight-title-fight-an-option-for-carl-frampton-if-he-passes-las-vegas-comeback-test-1756545/)

CARL Frampton has confirmed that moving up to super-featherweight for a shot at Jamel Herring's WBO title is an option for him next year if he comes through his November 30 comeback fight against American Tyler McCreary in Las Vegas.
Frampton returns to the ring after 11 months on the sidelines against ‘Golden Child' McCreary at the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas resort at a catch-weight 128lbs. If he comes through that test and Herring successfully defends his belt against Lamont Roach this weekend then they could be on collision course for a fight in the US early next year.
“It is potential,” said Frampton.
“This fight with McCreary is 128lbs so it's in between featherweight and super-featherweight and that's giving me the opportunity to make a decision on whether I go up or down depending on what appears.
“Whatever option comes first - if I get offered a title at featherweight or super-feather - I'll take it.”
Frampton will have been out of competitive action for almost a year when he ducks through the ropes at the Cosmopolitan. His most recent fight was against Josh Warrington in Manchester on December 22 last year and he had to pull out of his fight against Emmanuel Dominguez in August after breaking his hand. However, he says he has no concerns over ring rust.
“I had a camp behind me before I started this one,” said Frampton.
“It's not as if I got beat by Warrington last December and I've been doing nothing for the last few months, I was training for a fight in Philadelphia that didn't happen and was cancelled five days before it.
“So I have that camp behind me so it's not as if I'll have problems because of lack of sparring or anything like that. I'm not worried about ring rust in the slightest.”
