
# Dogged Derrygonnelly refuse to go away as Ulster odyssey continues after penalty drama

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **From Neil Loughran at Brewster Park**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/04/news/dogged-derrygonnelly-refuse-to-go-away-as-ulster-odyssey-continues-after-penalty-drama-1755403/)


        AIB Ulster Club Senior Football Championship quarter-final: Derrygonnelly Harps (Fermanagh) 1-17 St Macartan’s, Trillick (Tyrone) 3-11 (Derrygonnelly win 6-5 on penalties)
      
IT feels like an exercise in futility writing a report on a match that is likely to be remembered for nine minutes worth of ooh and aahs rather than the 80 odd that went before. If that does turn out to be the case, it would be doing a huge disservice to a thrilling game of football.
The penalty shoot-out that eventually split Derrygonnelly and Trillick was gripping, edge of the seat stuff, no doubt. Neither deserved to lose on the day, and the argument will doubtless rumble on about whether this year of replays should have extended to one more.
One thing’s for sure, though – anybody lucky enough to have been in Brewster Park yesterday would’ve happily paid their way at the gate to watch these two have another crack at each other.
In the end it was Derrygonnelly who progressed to a November 17 semi-final clash with Kilcoo after 11 penalty kicks. History might tell us their victory came courtesy of Lee Brennan’s spurned effort, but the Harps deserve much more credit than being seen to have prevailed on the back of one man’s misfortune.
Above all else, the tremendous spirit they summoned when all looked lost at half-time in extra-time is what yesterday’s win should be remembered for.
Four points back after Ryan Gray scrambled home his second goal of the day - Trillick’s third - looked too great a peak for weary legs and limbs to scale.
Already they had battled back in the final 10 minutes of normal time, that time landing the final three scores to draw level after Mattie Donnelly led the Trillick surge in the early stages.
The two-time Allstar bagged the opening score after 52 seconds before his lay-off – following a beautiful right to left pass from brother Richie opened up the space – landed in the arms of Ryan Gray, who slammed home from close range to tie it up at 1-3 apiece 15 minutes in.
But Derrygonnelly were giving as good as they got, and it was the unlikely figure of Eamon McHugh – one of the smaller players on the field – who had risen highest to flick home Conall Jones’s effort at the posts for their goal in the third minute.
Unfortunately for Trillick Mattie Donnelly went down in a heap just before half-time, and while there was relief when he rose to his feet, it was no surprise when he didn’t reappear for the second half.
As any side would, they missed his power and penetration in the final third, but a superb James Garrity goal five minutes after the break – firing into the corner of the net after a clever pass from Liam Gray – gave them a platform on which to build.
But still Trillick couldn’t shake off a dogged Derrygonnelly, who finished normal time strongly, Shane McGullion the hero as he spun past James Garrity to split the posts two minutes into added time after two Garvan Jones frees had closed the gap to one.
Yet an even greater test of their mettle was to come after Ryan Gray’s extra-time goal helped Trillick to a 3-11 to 1-13 half-time lead. Again, though, the Harps kept the coolest heads in the cauldron.
A Ryan Jones score sandwiched between two beauties from younger brother Garvan brought it back to the minimum just two minutes into the second period, setting up a frantic, nerve-wracking finale.
Trillick sent Mattie Donnelly back into the fray in a bid to close out the game in the dying moments, but it was the Tyrone ace who was blown by referee Niall McKenna for over-carrying after being bottled up by purple and gold bodies in his own half with the game three minutes into added time.
That left Conall Jones with the kind of free he had been popping over with ease all day. A deathly hush fell as he sized up the last kick of the game to the left of the posts, roughly 30 metres out. The huge roar that followed the ball leaving his boot told you all you needed to know.
The spirit in which the do-or-die penalties were played belied the ultra-competitiveness of the action up until then. These two clubs aren’t so far apart as the crow flies, and both groups of players know each other well.
That respect was evident as each shook hands with the opposition’s next taker on the way back to their team-mates in the middle of the field.
Conall Jones displayed nerves of steel again in the shoot-out, stepping up twice and scoring twice to heap the pressure on Brennan as the penalties reached sudden death.
His low shot sent Derrygonnelly ’keeper Jack Kelly the wrong way before bouncing back off the post, sparking huge celebrations among the Fermanagh faithful.
They may have won five county titles back-to-back, but the Harps will have had few better days than this. Their journey continues, while Trillick are left to wonder about what might have been on a day that should live long in the memory.
Derrygonnelly: J Kelly; J Love, T Daly, M Jones; L Jones, Shane McGullion (0-1), G McGinley; R Jones (0-3), Stephen McGullion; K Cassidy, D Cassidy, E McHugh (1-0); G McGovern, C Jones (0-7, 0-6 frees), G Jones (0-6, 0-3 frees). Subs: G McKenna for G McGovern (50), N Gallagher for K Cassidy (54), L Green for J Love (70, ET), A McKenna for G McGinley (78, ET), G McGinley for L Jones (82, ET)
Penalties: C Jones, E McHugh, G McGinley, A McKenna, G McKenna, C Jones
Black card: D Cassidy, replaced by R McHugh (40)
Yellow cards: E McHugh (54), C Jones (61, ET)
Trillick: J Maguire; S O’Donnell, R Kelly, D Kelly; M Gallagher, R Brennan, D Gallagher (0-1); R Donnelly, G McCarron; L Gray (0-2), N Donnelly, R Gray (2-0); L Brennan (0-7, 0-5 frees, 0-1 45), M Donnelly (0-1), J Garrity (1-0). Subs: S Garrity for M Donnelly (HT), N Gormley for N Donnelly (55), D McDonnell for D Kelly (60+3), D McQuaid for M Gallagher (75, ET), M Donnelly for G McCarron (79, ET)
Penalties: L Brennan, D Gallagher, J Garrity, S Garrity, N Gormley, L Brennan (missed)
Yellow cards: D Kelly (58), S Garrity (76, ET), M Donnelly (81, ET)
Referee: N McKenna (Monaghan)
