
# From NFL Hopeful To The Corner Office: Athletics And What It Means To Be A Leader

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Morini**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2019/11/06/from-nfl-hopeful-to-the-corner-office-athletics-and-what-it-means-to-be-a-leader/)

There's one question I ask all my leaders: "Do you love winning more than you hate losing, or do you hate losing more than you love winning?" As the CEO of a leading tech company, I hold fast to the belief that preparation is the key to success. As a former NFL hopeful, it's a mantra I learned on the field, and it's continued to stick with me since hanging up my jersey for good in 1986.In addition to the educational and career opportunities it brought, football gave me the guidance, structure and wherewithal to understand that the challenges I faced on the field mirrored the real working world. Here are some things I learned along the way that could help you as you lead your business:

        Building a winning playbook.
      
• Preparation: Athletes run plays over and over again until they get them right. They study the playbook, and they run enough sprints during practice so they aren't winded during the fourth quarter. From my experience, the same mentality must be applied to business. Did you earn the right to ask for this business? Did you do your homework?
In business, optics are on display. Just like reviewing game tape on Monday mornings, you have nowhere to hide from your performance. Did you do a dry run of that new business proposal and demo? Did you practice your speech in the mirror ahead of the big presentation? It's not just about being mentally, physically or emotionally prepared. All cylinders need to be firing at once.
• Transparency: You cannot expect people to perform if you do not express your expectations. In order for your employees and colleagues to function as a team, they need direction. Leaders are coaches at practice, outlining to their employees what their individual roles are, how to execute those roles and how their contributions impact the company's bottom line. Clear and transparent communication among teams is key for ensuring that everyone is working toward the same goal, whatever that may be.
• Motivation and understanding: As a tech leader, you have to motivate yourself in order to ultimately motivate others. As you move up the corporate ladder, the group you answer to becomes broader, and with that comes more diversity in both personalities and skills.
In football, one play can be run multiple ways depending on the defense you see in front of you. The same is true in business. As your connections and interactions with employees grow, you should create a mental database of those interactions and envision how different scenarios might play out. Which actions result in the best outcome? That will inevitably change depending on the external circumstances, so having multiple plans of attack will ease the stress of navigating unfamiliar or difficult situations.
The ultimate goal is to have diverse personalities and skill sets working together as a single cohesive unit. Your most important skill is listening, and as a leader, your ears are your most valuable asset. In football, a quarterback will audible to a new play at the line of scrimmage because the circumstance (defense) has changed. In business, you cannot take full advantage of the opportunity in front of you if you don't listen, and the worst-case scenario is you end up running the wrong play.

        Failure is all part of the experience.
      
As an athlete, you are taught that in every competition, there will be winners and losers. Even with diligent preparation, concentration and execution, there will be times when you lose. It is inevitable, and in many cases, that failure has nothing to do with your individual performance. Sometimes, the team as a whole cannot perform cohesively, or you are simply outmatched. The same happens in business.
I believe failure is not something to be swept under the rug, but rather to be seen as an opportunity to learn. We review all losses internally from our team to better understand the market, our product and our approach. More times than not, we get more out of a loss review than we get out of reviewing our wins. Being a leader means being humble enough to know that even if you put your best foot forward, the result sometimes will not be in your favor. When this happens, make sure to figure out what you can do better and what can you learn for next time.
On the field, if one person does not execute their assignment, the play is destined to fail. Enterprise software leaders should have the same mentality. While everyone is responsible for their own tasks, the larger team only functions when everyone is engaged, knows the game plan and understands their individual roles within the larger scheme. I've repeatedly told the leaders who have worked with me through the years that each of us must be "the CEO of our role" to win consistently.
When I joined WorkForce, I knew that to succeed at scale, we needed better, faster communication and transparency at all levels. I also knew that a natural byproduct of transparency is accountability and that some may not like that. We worked hard to shift our company culture from siloed and inward-focused to collaborative and market-driven, and we saw very quickly that transparency bred visibility and accountability — from leadership through to the entire organization.
Business leaders set the tone for the values and, consequently, the integrity of the brand. You must not be afraid to share in the good, the bad and the ugly. You are the one calling the shots, and at the end of the day, you are the one responsible for the successes and failures of your team. You are held to higher standards and are accountable for not just your own actions, but also the actions of the team. After all, when you take the pads and helmet off, that is what team sports are all about: preparation, collaboration, accountability, the drive to win and, most importantly, fun!
