
# BREAKING Conor McGregor to plead guilty to assault charge as UFC star appears in court

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:42:05+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/breaking-conor-mcgregor-plead-guilty-20787217)

Conor McGregor is to enter a guilty plea in court in connection with an incident at a pub in Dublin.
The mixed martial arts star is facing a single charge of assault and appeared in court this morning.
Dublin District Court was told that the 31-year-old, of Lady Castle, Straffan, Co Kildare, is to plead guilty to the offence.
The court heard that the victim, Desmond Keogh, did not want to give a victim impact statement.
The victim has accepted an apology from the accused, the court was told.  
McGregor stood accused of assaulting Keogh at the Marble Arch pub in Drimnagh on April 6.
The 31-year-old initially appeared in court last month but asked for the case to be adjourned until today.
McGregor has not fought in the UFC since he was choked out by lightweight champion Khabib Nurmagomedov last October.
But last week he announced he will return on January 18 in Las Vegas - likely against Donald Cerrone.
Both Cerrone and UFC president Dana White have confirmed a deal is close which will see McGregor headline at the T-Mobile Arena.
And the Dubliner's long-time coach John Kavanagh also said he believes an announcement is imminent.
He told ESPN: "Like Dana said nothing is 100 per cent until all contracts are signed. As far as I am aware all parties have agreed more or less in principle. 
"There may be a few kinks to be ironed out. But, as far as I am aware, hopefully, an announcement is imminent.
“I’m just happy to see him back competing and is in a great mindset. We are training away, chipping away.
"It is 11 weeks tomorrow and ticking all the boxes. I can’t wait for the announcement so we can be full steam ahead.
"But, I am sure it is, I actually had in my head maybe during this event [UFC 244] they are going to do an ad or something, I don’t know, maybe that is coming.”
