
# Birmingham City linked with £6m striker as January windfall reports emerge

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-linked-6m-striker-17199913)

Birmingham City will appeal the red card shown to captain Harlee Dean in Saturday’s defeat to Cardiff City.
The centre back was sent off by referee Andrew  Madley at the Cardiff City Stadium, near the end of a match Blues lost 4-2.
Dean was involved in an incident with Joe Ralls in which he caught the Bluebirds midfielder, who scored three of Cardiff’s goals, as he jumped for a header.
Dean went up for the ball while Ralls did not jump and Madley considered that a serious enough offence to show a straight red.
That comes with a three match ban, which if it remains will keep Dean out of Saturday’s game with Fulham and the trips to Huddersfield Town and Sheffield Wednesday.
However, Blues will argue a case of wrongful dismissal, basically that it should not have been a red card.
More here.
Pep Clotet will not compromise Birmingham City’s adventurous style away from home.
Blues were involved in another high-scoring encounter in their most recent road trip, Saturday’s eventful 4-2 defeat at Cardiff City .
It was a game that featured two penalties, two red cards and a disallowed goal as well as a scintillating start from Clotet’s Blues.
Kristian Pedersen put them 1-0 up in the third minute, Jude Bellingham hit the stanchion behind the goal, Dan Crowley struck the post and over the whole piece Blues had 25 shots on goal, six on target.
Cardiff also had half a dozen on target - but beat Lee Camp four times as the game became stretched.
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
“The first-half is the way I want us to play in games and make sure we can score those goals.  It is not easy to come to Cardiff, but we had 25 shots at goal,” Clotet insisted.
“We need to keep doing a lot of work to make sure that luck is with us and we can finish off our chances.
“Football is a very simple game, but it is so hard and so difficult to make the play simple; the key facts are that you have to take it to the opposition and create a lot of chances when you have the ball.
“When you don’t have the ball, my way of understanding is to make sure you get it back as soon as possible. This cannot change - home and away. The game has to be the same."
  
Birmingham City have been linked with a January swoop for Burnley striker Nahki Wells.
The Sun (November 3 edition), via HITC , claims Blues could look to take Wells from his loan with QPR as his parent club look to cash in on the player.
Wells joined Burnley from Huddersfield for £5 million in the summer of 2017 but was not able to break into Sean Dyche’s first team.
After just ten appearances and no goals in 2017/2018, Wells was sent on loan to QPR for last season, where he scored seven goals in 40 Championship appearances.
He moved back to Loftus Road for a second loan spell in the summer and Mark Warburton has unleased the Bermuda international who has already exceeded last year’s total with eight from 15 matches - and in October was nominated for the league’s Player of the Month.
Wells is in the final few months of his Clarets’ contract but according to Sun journalist Alan Nixon , Burnley have an option to extend for another season.
And they could also be looking to cash in with the suggestion that Blues could launch a £6million bid for the 29-year-old when the window reopens.
Blues were linked with a deadline day move for Wells in August but in the end he opted late in the day to go back to Loftus Road.
That left Blues with only Lukas Jutkiewicz and Alvaro Gimenez as recognised senior strikers although Kerim Mrabti has filled in pretty well in recent weeks.
Wells has flourished at Rangers and has helped them to ninth in the table, three places and one point above Blues.
We asked Blues fans what they thought.
Andrew Tetsell: Gayle all the way for me, hes proven and a far superior player. We can obviously afford him as we agreed wages with the player, only for Newcastle to increase price past 12 million. The original deal was worth between 10-12 million so go again might get him nearer 10 million now as his contract is up in June. If not Gayle then ivan toney, young and hungry and would cost half the funds of Gayle.
Stephen Massey: Only Gayle for me with our funds. He’s a proven goal scorer and you’ve only got to listen to west Brom fans go on about him. He would totally change the look of our team in the threat up front . Our problem is he will be wanted by many clubs come January so it’s wise to keep the options available. No1 Gayle ,don’t mess about
Cody Cole: Not really gonna improve the squad or have a big impact we need to be more ambitious rather than looking at average players
John Palmer: Rather pay the extra for Gayle if we’re willing to spend 6mil
Steven Cale: Dwight Gayle for me if we can afford him, if not seek a younger pacy forward who can develop and have a big resale value in a couple of years. Cheap options abroad I’m sure of it.
Mark Ivory: Younger hungry player up front is what we need better for the money about than wells 6 mill to pricey
Andrew Barrie: Nope.. Go get Ivan Toney or Mo Eisa from Peterborough
Jordan Bohemia: I think he’d definitely do well for us but I wouldn’t pay £6m for him no way.
Danny Puliuca: Ivan Toney all day long
Paul Harris: Never been prolific Goalscorer, not for me
Garry Monk is plotting a move for ex-Birmingham City youngster Bez Lubala, according to reports.
Website teamTALK reckon the Sheffield Wednesday boss wants to be reunited with the 21-year-old to whom he gave his Blues debut.
They say the Owls are ‘leading the chase’ for the attacker who has had a superb start to his Crawley Town career.
Lubala has scored eight times in 20 appearances, his most recent in the 2-1 loss to Cambridge on Saturday, as Gabriele Cioffi’s men sit 17th in the table.
TeamTALK also reckon Middlesbrough, Wigan and Peterborough United have all watched him in recent weeks and note that it was Monk who gave the youngster from Leicester his first taste of senior football at Blues.
The Daily Mail reported in September that Premier League and Championship scouts were watching him after his scintillating start to life at Crawley.
Lubala was offered a new one-year deal with an option of a second, in order to keep him at St Andrew’s but in revealed on social media why he had opted to move on.
His post read: “I would just like to say l’ve had great 5 seasons at Birmingham City, however after weeks of negotiations unfortunately me and the club could not come to an agreement regarding a new contact.”
Lubala left with Blues having negotiated an undisclosed sell on fee . He made four Championship appearances off the bench under Monk.
 
