
# 'Own it': Fox News's Janice Dean roasts Amy Robach for Epstein hot mic comments

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:47:17+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/own-it-fox-news-meteorologist-roasts-abc-news-amy-robach-for-epstein-hot-mic-comments)

Fox News's senior meteorologist Janice Dean argued that ABC News's Amy Robach should "own" the comments she said made on a hot mic about her network appearing to stymie her reporting on sexual predator Jeffrey Epstein.
The video of Robach discussing her reporting about Virginia Roberts, one of Epstein's accusers, from years earlier, was released on Tuesday by Project Veritas founder James O'Keefe. She can be heard voicing her frustration about the network refusing to run with her story and alleged that "the Palace" had threatened them after finding out about Roberts's claims about Prince Andrew.
"It was unbelievable what we had. Clinton, we had everything," she said while shaking her head in disbelief. "I tried for three years to get it on to no avail. And now it's all coming out, and it's like these new revelations, and I freaking had all of it."
Robach released a statement claiming that her comments were "caught in a private moment of frustration" and added that her interview with Roberts "didn't air because we could not obtain sufficient corroborating evidence to meet ABC's editorial standards about her allegations."
Dean took exception with Robach's explanation that her comments were simply frustration.
In a now-deleted tweet, the Fox News personality said, "Anyone who works in television knows if you've got a camera [in] front of you and a microphone on, you're not in private. What a bunch of bologna. Own it @arobach. @ABC should be ashamed."
She does have a different tweet about the Robach tape on her Twitter account, which reads, "This is so disturbing. For so many reasons. Not sure what else to say.
