
# Reader’s Voice: Pirates Are The Only Team Who Can Beat Chiefs!

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:41:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/supporters_club/reader-s-voice-pirates-are-the-only-team-who-can-beat-chiefs/667000)


        “Billiat, Castro and Nurkovic are not a threat to Pirates, the less said about Billiat, the better. He never had impact in all the games that Pirates beat Chiefs, yes, Chiefs are winning but Pirates has players to cause havoc for Chiefs.  As much as they failed to capitalize on our 10-men game last week, there is nothing special about Chiefs, 
        we will beat them if we take convert our chances.”
      
SL Suporter @Itu.makara.victor is talking the talk on behalf of Orlando Pirates fans who feel that their side is capable of stopping Kaizer Chiefs in their tracks this weekend.
Pirates are on the revenge path after Chiefs dumped them out of the Telkom Knockout when they squared off at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday.

        Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
      
SL Supporter @Sprinter Baloyi foresees the Buccaneers claiming victory if they beef up their defence.

        “Pirates’ defence stopped them last weekend and they can do it this week again. Chabalala and Mbekile can stop them. I see 2-1 win for Pirates.”
      
After it was revealed that Pirates are planning to beef up their defence, SL Supporter @Nelinha1 feels that Bucs do not necessarily need to deploy special tactics to stop the table toppers, instead their fighting spirit might see them over the line.

        “There is no special remedy needed for this weekend’s clash of the titans. Bucs have capable players that will perform on the day and bring home all three points. Chiefs might be riding a high wave but that does not mean Bucs are in trouble! Therefore, there are no special tactics required to stop Chiefs but going onto the field of play with intent to fight and win the match!”
      

        Do you think Pirates have what it takes to stop the Kaizer Chiefs steam train?
      
