
# 'Just withdraw' - Liverpool fans react to latest Aston Villa decision

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Jonny Bonell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/just-withdraw-liverpool-fans-react-17206124)

Aston Villa’s Carabao Cup quarter-final with Liverpool will take place on Tuesday, December 17 (7.45pm).
Uncertainty had surrounded the last-eight clash due to the Reds’ involvement in the club World Cup during December.
Jurgen Klopp’s side play in the semi-final a day after the scheduled quarter-final against Villa, and Liverpool today (Tuesday) confirmed their intention to play one team at Villa Park and another 24 hours later in Qatar.
“As a result, we will be utilising two playing squads simultaneously, with one squad participating in the FIFA Club World Cup in Qatar and another in the Carabao Cup,” a Liverpool statement read.
Here’s what the Liverpool fans have made of the decision.
@Luke_Chidlow4: We’re definitely playing a youth team in the quarter final.
@SamueILFC: Can’t wait to beat Aston Villa with our under 18’s and Andy Lonergan.
@LFCAaron_: Joke.
 
@rauidri: Punished for being successful.
@zerscna: So we’re actually splitting the team wow.
@socallfc: Would be a great statement if we just withdraw lol.
@ijc: Laughable. Field an under 18's. Exactly the reason why no-one cares about this tin pot cup anymore. This is a joke.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
@maulty1983: This is a joke. The fact we have to do this says it all about the amount of fixtures we have in December.
@DjCaro: Football is the loser. Happy to play in nets at Villa Park if we're short.
