
# Colin Farrell in talks to play Penguin in The Batman, Andy Serkis for Alfred

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:39:10+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/colin-farrell-talks-play-penguin-20822255)

Looks like we finally have our Penguin for the new Batman outing.
According to The Hollywood Reporter, Irish actor Colin Farrell is in talks to play the role of the crime lord known as The Penguin/Oswald Cobblepot.
The character has previously been portrayed in live-action by Danny DeVito in Batman Returns (1992), in the 1960s TV series by Burgess Meredith, and by Robin Lord Taylor in the TV series Gotham.
Meanwhile, THR has also revealed that Lord of the Rings star Andy Serkis is also in talks for the film, with the actor in line to play the trusted butler and confidante to Batman, Alfred Pennyworth.
The iconic butler has also been played previously by actors such as Michael Gough in the 1990s films, Michael Caine in the Christopher Nolan trilogy, and recently, Douglas Hodge in Joker.
 
Serkis is also no stranger to comic book films, having appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Black Panther in 2018 as the villainous Ulysses Klaue.
The two join a line-up that already includes Oscar-nominated actor Paul Dano as The Riddler, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald star Zoe Kravitz as Catwoman, Jeffrey Wright as Commissioner James Gordon, and, of course, Robert Pattinson as Batman/Bruce Wayne.
The film is directed by Matt Reeves, who previously worked with Andy Serkis on the recent Planet of the Apes films.

        The Batman is released in cinemas on June 25, 2021.
      

        
          Do you approve of these Batman castings? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
