
# 2019 target of 85 million domestic tourists achievable

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:49:53+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/2019-target-85-million-domestic-tourists-achievable)

PUTRAJAYA (Nov 1): With extended weekend-getaways becoming very much a Malaysian culture, Tourism Malaysia is targeting 85.2 million domestic tourists and RM68.5 billion in tourism receipts this year.
Barring any disaster till year-end, the agency is confident of achieving its target, said its deputy director-general (Planning) Zulkifly Md Said.
The number of cars on the road during long weekends is an indication that locals love to travel, he said after opening the three-day Cuti-Cuti Malaysia Travel Fair 2019 here today.
He said local tourism industry players need to seize the opportunity by being more proactive and creative in promoting their products to attract domestic tourists.
They should also ensure that their products are unique to their customers, he added.
Last year, there were 78.2 million domestic tourists with their total spending amounting to RM60.4 billion, he said.
Zulkifly said Tourism Malaysia was also actively pursuing various programmes and promotions to boost domestic tourism activities including the Domestic Sales Mission, Corporate Travel Bazaar, Matta Fair and the Cuti Cuti Malaysia Travel Fair.
Some 30 companies are participating in the fair. They include travel agencies, hotels and product entrepreneurs, offering and selling affordable domestic travel packages to residents around Putrajaya and the Klang Valley.
