
# TUI throw couple off cruise 'for having sex too loudly' - just 24 hours into two-week trip

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:38:53+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Kara O&#39;Neill, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/world-news/tui-throw-couple-cruise-for-17190040)

TUI have moved to throw a couple off a cruise after just 24 hours - because they were "having sex too loudly".
The couple, from Germany, were heading onto the cruise for a two-week trip around the Caribbean.
But they left cruise workers stunned with their raunchy exploits - and were subsequently marched off board.
The pair disembarked in Barbados, in the Caribbean, after their exploits drew raised eyebrows from baffled, red-faced members of staff.
They were having intercourse with a balcony door open, according to reports.
The duo, according to the  Reise Reporter , have now started legal proceedings against TUI cruises.
The company is set to face a legal challenge from the pair, who hail from Europe.
The German couple claim they were left "stranded" in Barbados with their suitcases, reports the Mirror .
 
Renate F, and her husband, Volker, told Reise they were having very loud "consensual sex" but forgot that their balcony door was open.
The couple are now thought to be suing the holiday company for damages, including compensation for "pain" and reimbursement for travel expenses.
They claim the tour operator and the captain "violated their duty of care".
In a statement to the Resie Reporter, TUI said: "Due to a security related incident, we have made use of our house right and asked the guests to leave the ship.
"This was done to protect the guests themselves and other fellow travellers.
 
"There has already been correspondence with Mrs F. in which we have set our our view of things.
"Please understand that we do not want to comment on the privacy of our guests in detail."
