
# Tade Thompson: ‘Quite frankly Victor Frankenstein was a dick’

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:00:39+00:00**

Author: **Tade Thompson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/01/tade-thompson-books-that-made-me)


        The winner of the Arthur C Clarke award on the influence of Mary Shelley, crying over Stephen King, and his unopened copies of Gormenghast
      
The book I am currently readingChaos: Charles Manson, the CIA and the Secret History of the Sixties by Tom O’Neill takes on the Tate-LaBianca murders from left field. Like anyone with a heartbeat in the 70s, this story haunted me, but O’Neill pulls together some threads that I knew nothing about.
The book that changed my lifeThere is no single book, but Seneca’s Letters from a Stoic and Maurice Rowdon’s Leonardo Da Vinci come close. I had an interesting childhood and these books helped me cope, Seneca by teaching me to control the experience of suffering, and Rowdon by showing me that weirdness can be a result of creativity (or that creative people can be weird). Both calmed me down.
The book I wish I’d writtenOcean Sea by Alessandro Baricco. Those weird, evocative sentences and unforgettable characters … it’s the kind of book I’d like to have written to demonstrate the purity of my feelings for a lover. She, of course, would reject me.
The book that influenced my writingMary Shelley’s Frankenstein. I read it as a teenager and the seething mess of nested narratives and charnel houses lodged itself in my imagination. I’ve read it more than any other book and hardly a day goes by when I don’t think of making corpses walk. Quite frankly Victor Frankenstein was a dick.
The book I think is most overratedMoby-Dick by Herman Melville. With apologies to my US friends and my English teacher. This book didn’t just leave me cold. When I finished I wanted to make a list of everybody who had recommended it and make them eat it.
The book that changed my mindI generally turned my nose up at fantasy until I read Robin Hobb’s Assassin’s Apprentice.
The last book that made me cryIt was also the first book that made me cry: IT by Stephen King. There’s a scene in the middle that actually happened to me. No, not an evil clown-spider. A fight with bullies.
The last book that made me laughLess by Andrew Sean Greer. What would you do to avoid a former lover’s wedding? Go on a world tour, of course. Absurd and heartbreaking.
The book I couldn’t finishUlysses by James Joyce. Sorry, James. I tried. I even spent money on a special edition in order to force myself. My last attempt was five years ago and I stopped at page 52.
The book I’m most ashamed not to have readGormenghast by Mervyn Peake. I have two versions given to me as gifts. They remain unopened.
My earliest reading memoryFantastic Four Annual #4 by Jack Kirby and Stan Lee. I was five. Young Human Torch versus older, wiser, WW II Human Torch. It was love at first sight.
My comfort readHouse of Leaves by Mark Z Danielewski. I wrote a ghost story novelette once, and a reader commented that I was obviously influenced by this book. I had never heard of it, but I read it and kept going back, because it is lush and endless.
The book I’d most like to be remembered forToo early to answer this, but I’m proud of Rosewater.
• Rosewater won the Arthur C Clarke award in July 2019. The Rosewater Redemption is published by Orbit.
