
# 'I don't even play for him' - The brilliant Slaven Bilic verdict West Brom fans must read

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:49:27+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/slaven-bilic-west-bromwich-albion-17214966)

Ian Holloway has lavished praise on West Bromwich Albion boss Slaven Bilic.
Bilic, installed in the summer by The Hawthorns side's hierarchy, has led the Baggies to the top of the Championship after 15 games.
They sit two points clear of Preston North End ahead of this weekend's clash with Hull City at the KCOM Stadium on Saturday.
The Croatian is well-known for his charismatic and energetic management style and met with Holloway, who works as a pundit for Sky Sports, recently according to the former Queens Park Rangers and Leicester City boss.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
And Holloway has been blown away by Bilic's impact at the Baggies and reckons they are a good bet for promotion, adding that any side that does finish near West Brom will be close to a place in the Premier League.
"I had the pleasure of meeting Slaven Bilic last week," He wrote in his column for the Mirror .
"Woah what a fella! I was absolutely captivated in his company. It was marvellous.
"Would I bet against West Brom getting promoted? I don't think I would. Anyone who finishes either one place above them or one place below is going to be very close to being promoted.
 
"They are going to be in that shake-up and I think they are going to be one of the two to go up.
"I think that is all down to the manager. He filled me with confidence and I don't even play for him.
"When I sat with him and listened to him it was fantastic. He is the secret behind the solidness they seem to have."
