
# Nicola Adams: a glittering boxing career – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:24:51+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/gallery/2019/nov/06/nicola-adams-glittering-boxing-career-in-pictures)


        As the double Olympic champion hangs up her gloves over eyesight fears we take a look back at the career of the first woman to win Olympic gold in her sport
      
Adams had a successful start to her boxing career, becoming English amateur champion as well as taking silver at the 2007 European Championships and the 2008 and 2019 World Championships. She was also victorious at the first ever GB Amateur Boxing Championships at the Echo Arena in Liverpool – defeating Lynsey Holdaway.
Photograph: Peter Byrne/PA Archive
The following year she was named by in the British team for the 2012 London Olympics and was highlighted by the BBC as one of six promising British athletes to watch at the Olympics.
Photograph: Gary Calton/The Guardian
At the 2012 Olympics Adams made it through the final where amongst the millions watching was Adam’s 10-month-old Doberman called Dexter.
Photograph: Anna Gowthorpe/PA Archive
Adam’s opponent in the final was world No 1 Ren Cancan who beat Adams three months earlier in the World Championship final.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
Adams gives a message on the big screen as her mum, Dee, is interviewed during a homecoming reception in Millennium Square, Leeds.
Photograph: Anna Gowthorpe/PA Archive
In 2013 Adams joined fellow Olympic medal winnersJade Jones and Louis Smith and took part in the world’s biggest triathlon in London’s Docklands.
Photograph: John Stillwell/PA Archive
Following her gold medal win, Adams was in demand to attend award ceremonies and film premiers such as the film Grudge Match – a sports comedy film starring Robert De Niro and Sylvester Stallone as ageing boxers stepping into the ring for one last bout.
Photograph: Ian West/PA Archive
Adams returned to the ring at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow where she overpowered Mandy Bujold of Canada to triumph in their women’s flyweight semi-final.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
Adams fourght Michaela Walsh in the flyweight final and landed the cleaner shots throughout the bout and was awarded a split decision.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
Adams watches the flags go up as the national anthem after she, and her fellow pugilists, were presented with their medals.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
Nicola Adams, pictured following her Commonwealth Games gold medal victory, for an interview where she talked about growing up wanting to be a boxer, making history against the odds – and why she still won’t call herself a feminist.
Photograph: Sarah Lee/The Guardian
In 2015 Adams was the flag bearer leading the Great Britain team into the stadium at the Opening Ceremony for the 2015 European Games in Baku, Azerbaijan. Adams won the flyweight gold on a majority points decision over Poland’s Sandra Drabik.
Photograph: François Nel/Getty Images
Nicola Adams warms up at the Team GB training camp in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, ahead of the 2016 Olympic games in Rio de Janeiro.
Photograph: Owen Humphreys/PA Archive
Nicola Adams during a media session at The British School of Rio de Janeiro
Photograph: David Davies/PA Archive
Adams (red) again made it through to the flyweight final where she met Sarah Ourahmoune of France
Photograph: Dean Mouhtaropoulos/Getty Images
Adams won a unanimous points decision over Sarah Ourahmoune to became the first British boxer to retain an Olympic title for 92 years.
Photograph: Owen Humphreys/PA Archive/PA Images
An emotional Adams on the podium after being presented with her gold medal.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
A month after her triumph in Rio, Adams was strutting on the catwalk during London Fashion Week at the Vin & Omi Spring/Summer 2017 show.
Photograph: Alan D West/PA Archive
Adams was presented with the inspirational ‘Paving The Way’ award at the 2016 Mobos. The award is given to individuals in any field who are “punching above their weight” or creating a path for others to follow. Adams became the first woman to win an Olympic boxing title, the first double Olympic champion, as well as being the first boxer to win European, Commonwealth and World titles.
Photograph: Ross Gilmore/Getty Images
The double Olympic boxing gold medallist was one of the nominees for the 2016 BBC Sports Personality of the Year award and here she is being filmed for a segment of the show.
Photograph: Tom Jenkins/The Guardian
In January 2017 Nicola Adams announced she was turning professional and her debut pro fight was against Virginia Noemi Carcamo in April.
Photograph: Simon Cooper/PA Archive
Adams was vastly superior in the flyweight contest, which was held over four two-minute rounds and won with a 40-36 points victory.
Photograph: Mark Robinson/Getty Images
In March 2017 Adams was made an OBE (Officer of the Order of the British Empire) for services to boxing, to go with the MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) she received in 2013.
Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA Archive
Nicola Adams’s medals on display at the launch of her autobiography ‘Believe: Boxing, Olympics and my life outside the ring’.
Photograph: Maja Smiejkowska/Shutterstock
May 2017 saw Adams’ second professional fight and her first in her hometown of Leeds. She fought Maryan Salazar and won on a TKO.
Photograph: Danny Lawson/PA Archive/PA Images
Ahead of the 2017 Pride Parade, Soho advertising agency Mr President included Adams along with actress Laverne Cox, comedian Ellen DeGeneres and singer George Michael in a tribute to modern icons of tolerance and acceptance, in support of the LGBT community.
Photograph: Stephen Chung/Lnp/Shutterstock
In 2018 Adams dallied with the world of fashion againand launched her first sportswear collection in collaboration with Everlast and she is pictured with designer Michele Lamy at Selfridges, London.
Photograph: Victoria Jones/PA Archive
Nicola Adams was back in Leeds for her fourth professional bout, fighting at Elland Road on the undercard of the IBF world featherweight bout between fellow Leeds boxer Josh Warrington and Lee Selby. Adams produced an eye-catching display to stop Soledad del Valle Frias after putting the Argentine fighter down in the first round.
Photograph: Dave Thompson/PA Archive
October 2018 saw Adams defeat Isabel Millan in a a unanimous points victory to win the vacant interim WBO world flyweight title.
Photograph: Nick Potts/PA Archive
Nicola Adams’ charisma has meant that she has frequently been on our TV screens since her first Olympic title. Here she is on The Jonathan Ross Show in March 2019 with Danny DeVito and Colin Farrell.
Photograph: Brian J Ritchie/Hotsauce/Shutterstock
September 2019 saw Adams boxing at London’s Royal Albert Hall where she fought Maria Salinas in what was her last time in the ring
Photograph: Philip Sharkey/TGS Photo/Shutterstock
The bout ended in a draw which meant Adams retained the WBO World Flyweight title and finished her professional career unbeaten.
Photograph: Steven Paston/PA Wire
