
# On World Mental Health Day, Celebrity Engagement and Social Media Break Down Barriers

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **One Mind**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/onemind/2019/11/01/on-world-mental-health-day-celebrity-engagement-and-social-media-break-down-barriers/)

World Mental Health Day occurs every year on October 10th. This year’s day of awareness generated an influx of attention and conversation around mental health that spanned television and social media throughout the month of October. The increasing visibility of positive messages around mental health in media and popular culture makes starting or continuing a dialogue in the workplace not only easier, but inevitable.The messages this year ranged from quirky to serious and included organic interactions with individual celebrities on social media to much larger, planned campaigns from major TV networks. On October 10th, Ed Sheeran and Prince Harry released a cheeky PSA to check in on one’s friends and loved ones to make sure that no one suffers alone. Meanwhile, actress Ruby Rose opened up about her serious, decades-long struggle with mental illness, from dissociative amnesia to PTSD and depression. Though not the first time Rose has revealed her battles with her mental health, in her commentary this year she was candid about the difficulties of diagnosing and treating mental health conditions, particularly when an individual is dealing with multiple issues. Her post on Instagram generated considerable response from fans and other celebrities through comments, creating a positive and highly visible example of the kind of conversation that can help break down stigma. 
Similarly, outreach directly from a celebrity to a fan on social media speaks volumes and can go a long way in normalizing conversations around mental health, especially for young people. On October 10th, Harry Styles reached out to a fan that had Tweeted, “I guess therapy can wait. HS2 [Styles’ upcoming album] and tour can’t.” Styles replied “Go to therapy, it’s important. I’ll wait for you,” adding the hashtag #WorldMentalHealthDay. Styles’ simple gesture generated significant media pickup and drove home not only the point that it’s okay to talk about mental health, but that it’s important to prioritize and properly address issues with methods like therapy.  
Beyond celebrity engagement, two major television networks launched campaigns around mental health. Comedy Central, in partnership with Mental Health First Aid (MHFA), kicked off its first-ever social impact campaign, “Be the Difference,” with a PSA featuring comedians Jeff Ross, Matteo Lane and Yamaneika Saunders. Comedy Central is using its reach and influence to point its audience toward MHFA, which focuses on teaching individuals how to identify, understand and respond to the symptoms of mental illness. Meanwhile, HBO unveiled the “It’s OK” campaign to encourage and empower viewers to speak up about mental health. The initiative includes short segments highlighting moments in HBO shows where characters are confronting their own or loved ones’ mental health issues, as well as segments titled “Doctor Commentaries,” in which clinical psychologist Dr. Ali Mattu breaks down relevant scenes from popular shows with expert commentary. 
Along with popular media coverage and celebrity engagement, social media companies also amplified the conversation around World Mental Health Day. Facebook introduced a “Let’s Talk” sticker on its messaging platform and promised to donate $1 for every sticker sent on October 10th, up to $1 million, to mental health organizations. In addition to the monetary commitment, Facebook intends for the stickers to help individuals connect with each other on its Messenger platform to open up a dialogue around mental health. A Facebook spokesperson explained that, based on a survey, many people find private messaging can be an easier space for difficult conversation, and the stickers are intended to help broach the subject when words are hard to find. Facebook’s approach aligns with some psychologists’ belief that social media can actually help people with anxiety, especially teens, make connections they wouldn’t in normal social situations.
It is inarguable that commitments to and conversations around mental health issues should happen every day of the year, not just on one day or for one month. However, the nature of popular culture today, specifically internet culture, means that messages, conversations, and campaigns for World Mental Health Day can continue to reach audiences and drive interaction long after they are posted. The wave of mental health advocacy in popular culture is also proving to be cumulative, as more and more celebrities open up about mental health and conversations on platforms like Twitter and Instagram become more popular and normalized. World Mental Health Day presents an opportunity every year for new voices to join the conversation. Moreover, the intersection of mental health with popular culture makes it much easier to start a conversation with your own friends, family, and colleagues. Next time you and your workmate are bantering about celebrity news or a new HBO show, take the opportunity to bring up the topic of mental health.  Since everyone likely has either a friend, a family member or a personal issue with the early like brain illnesses of autism, learning disabilities to later life illnesses of Dementia and Parkinson, you are almost certain to find a welcomed conversation will ensue. 
