
# Dumbarton Primary pupil's Look for a Book idea proves a smash hit

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:03:46+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Clarke, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-clarke/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/dumbarton-primary-pupils-look-book-20826032)

A St Patrick’s Primary pupil’s idea for some October week fun has proved a smash hit with kids right throughout West Dunbartonshire.
In a story to rival any fairytale, Zoe Neeson convinced her mum Claire to start a Facebook group so she and her friends could hide books for each other to find.
However in less than a month the group has attracted more than 1500 members.
Look for a Book West Dunbartonshire has proved hugely popular with children right throughout the area, with members of the page posting a picture of the book hidden somewhere in the locality – and then waiting for it to be found.
And proud mum Claire explained that she’s been taken aback by the positive reaction it’s received.
 
She told the Lennox Herald: “We thought one or two of her friends might join in at first but it’s just taken off. That was never the intention at all.
“Zoe is just delighted that people are finding books on their way to school and bringing them in, and she’s loving telling them that it was her idea to hide all the books.
“It’s created a game, it’s like hide-and-seek and it’s something that’s a little bit different that gets kids out and about and away from their iPads, but it was totally unintentional.
“We’ve got so many books around the house from Zoe and her wee brother Kieran that we don’t read any more so it’s a great way to have some fun and get other people involved with them.”
And Zoe’s idea has also been recognised by both her school and West Dunbartonshire Council.
 
Claire continued: “Zoe’s got the most amazing imagination. She came running out of school on Friday because she won an award for encouraging other people to read, and she was so proud at being presented with that in front of the whole school.
“Libraries and heritage have been in touch and want to help out across Dumbarton, Balloch and Alexandria libraries. They’re ordering in thousands of plastic folders and will have sections where kids who maybe don’t have the money or access to books can take them so they can take part as well.”
For more local news from West Dunbartonshire click here .
