
# Passenger 'flies plane during scheduled flight as pilot gives instructions'

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:43:10+00:00**

Author: **Will Stewart, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-stewart/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/passenger-flies-plane-during-scheduled-20793977)

Footage of a female passenger apparently flying a plane during a scheduled flight is being investigated by authorities after it appeared on social media.
The woman, reportedly named Anna, appears to be sitting in the co-pilot's seat in the cockpit of the plane as a pilot gives her instructions on how to use the controls.
In the video, 'Anna', who is believed to be in her late 20s and is not thought to possess any flying qualifications, looks like she is flying the plane over Siberia.
Reports say the flight was by Russian airline InAero involving an Antonov-24 flight from Yakutsk to Batagai - which is usually around a one hour 50 minute trip.
The woman enjoyed a “real life flight simulator” on a passenger flight, said one account.
The flight was reportedly made on August 31, but the video has only emerged recently.
 
'Anna' had posted pictures and video on Instagram after the flight - but now these have been deleted.
She wrote: “This was unbelievably cool” and added: "Thank you!”.
Russian 5-TV channel reported the pilot’s name as Kirill S, and the woman was variously described as his “girlfriend” and a “very close friend”.
The pilot is heard saying: “Back, to the right, now to the left and turn it back," according to The Siberian Times.
 
She then queries the pilot, pointing at the navigation display: “Why can’t I get there?”
He answers: “Well, I have no idea why you can’t get there.”
If it was a scheduled passenger flight, it is not known how many people were on board.
Transport prosecutors in the region of Yakutia are investigating the video, reported multiple media including The Siberian Times. -
IrAero airlines told a Russian news site that it has begun a “thorough check” into the allegations.
A spokesman said: “There are doubts that these materials have anything to do with our airline’s activities in providing passengers transportation.”
IrAero is an airline based in the Siberian city of Irkutsk operating flights within Russia and internationally.
