
# Amazon’s Black Friday sales will last a whole week

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Henry Burrell**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/internet/amazon-black-friday-sale-dates-3777214/)

Amazon has announced that its Black Friday event in the UK will last for an eight-day stretch from Friday 22 November until Black Friday itself on Friday 29 November. Along with every other online retailer under the sun, the company will take full advantage of the fever pitch created around the Black Friday phenomenon with massive discounts the Friday after Thanksgiving.
We don’t know what big-ticket tech item prices will be slashed yet, but with eight days to fill you can be sure there will be great tech deals for everyone.
Not only that, there will be additional Amazon ‘countdown’ sales starting on Monday 18 November through to Thursday 21 November to pep everyone up.
While this is aimed to stoke excitement, it’s also a nightmare for you as consumers – do you pull the trigger on the first day? Will the prices go down further? Will stock run out?
Thankfully we’re here to help. We’ll be constantly monitoring Amazon and the rest of the web for the best Black Friday tech deals to bring your purchases that extra bit of confidence.
We don’t just spam you with everything out there. We review and use loads of tech and we know a good deal when we see one. £5 off is not a good deal, but 40% off is. So make sure to check in on the best Amazon deals here to make sure you’re not getting ripped off.
Whether it’s a new smartphone, coffee machine or Amazon Echo we’ll collect the best products and prices all week.
Amazon hasn’t announced any official Cyber Monday plans, but you can be pretty certain the deals will continue as they always do for Monday 2 December. If the week of Black Friday deals is anything to go by, they may carry on even longer into December too.
