
# The Lord of the Rings digital card game just hit consoles with cross-play, and it's worth a look for Tolkien fans

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Carter**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/the-lord-of-the-rings-digital-card-game-just-hit-consoles-with-cross-play-and-it-s-worth-a-look-for-tolkien-fans-571805.phtml)

Digital card games are making a stand. Although they've existed long before Hearthstone (Triple Triad or Solitaire anyone?), Blizzard's behemoth was the big call to arms, leading to all sorts of competitors.
One game I've cycled into my repertoire this past year is The Lord of the Rings: Adventure Card Game (formerly known as The Lord of the Rings Living Card Game in Early Access), primarily because it takes a completely different approach with co-op.
Having primarily played it on PC for the past year and change in Early Access (it arrived in earnest this past summer), I had a chance to check out the brand new Switch version, which launched alongside of the PS4 and Xbox One editions this week. With the boon of portable mode (and offline play, since the PC edition is firmly rooted in Asmodee's system for now) I was drawn back into its clutches yet again, crafting decks (parties, really) and cutting through Sauron's minions all over again.
The gist is that like the real-life tabletop LCG, the game pits you against a "Sauron Deck/AI" in co-op fashion. You can take on quests with a friend or by yourself, which follow a loose storyline that takes place between the events of The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings proper. But while there's certainly an opportunity to lift from the iconic Jackson film trilogy wholesale, developer Fantasy Flight Interactive does its own thing, drawing upon the vast amounts of lore from the source material, as well as all of the gorgeous art from the LCG.
Speaking of, the [four-player co-op] LCG is probably my favorite tabletop game ever made. At this point there's nearly a decade of content spread across it (though it is taking a hiatus in 2020), and the deckbuilding potential is so deep, you could spend literal hours poring over each and every nuanced detail in an effort to create something the community has never seen before.
Nearly every character or region, no matter how small, is represented in the LCG, to the point where you could have an entire party and army of Hobbits as your deck, based on mechanics like secrecy and sneaking to avoid combat altogether. Or, you can opt for a Silvan-based deck that shoots enemies from across the table and bounces back into the treetops (your hand) for safety.
