
# ‘Housefull 4’ box-office collection Day 8: The Akshay Kumar starrer grosses Rs 8 crore on its second Friday

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:51:12+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-day-8-the-akshay-kumar-starrer-grosses-rs-8-crore-on-its-second-friday/articleshow/71864299.cms)

Farhad Samji’s crazy comedy caper ‘Housefull 4’ has been creating waves at the box-office ever since the release of the film. The cash registers at the box-office are still ringing even after a week of its release. According to a report in BoxofficeIndia.com, the multi-starrer has grossed Rs 8 crore nett on its second Friday. This is reportedly taken the film to Rs 145.25 crore in eight days. It would not be a surprise if ‘Housefull 4’ turns out to be the highest grossing films of Akshay Kumar ever.
Also featuring on the list of top highest Diwali collections is ‘Golmaal Again’, ‘Krrish 3’, ‘Ra.One’, ‘Ae Dil Hai Mushkil’, ‘Jab Tak Hai Jaan’ and ‘Shivaay’ on the 10th spot.
The multi-starrer comedy leaves no stone unturned to tickle your funny bone with slapstick comedy and one-liners. The Farhad Samji directorial film revolves around the theme of reincarnation and follows a non-linear narrative.
It boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth installment of the hit comedy franchise.
The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box-office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
