
# Bafana International Shines In France, Ekstein On Target

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/players-abroad/south-african-players-abroad-wrap-12/666650)


        France
      
Lebogang Phiri played a starring role as Guingamp thumped Chambly 5-0 in Ligue 2 on Friday night.
The Bafana Bafana international bagged two assists on the night as Guingamp moved up to fifth.
Lebogang Mothiba lasted 63 minutes for Strasbourg, who suffered a 1-0 loss to Angers on Saturday night.
Elsewhere, Bongani Zungu was a 90th minute substitute in Amiens' 1-0 victory over Brest.

        Belgium
      
Kurt Abrahams bagged his fifth league goal of the season as his Westerlo drew 1-1 with Lommel in the Belgian second division on Saturday.
In the top division, Percy Tau played the final 35 minutes as Club Brugge eased to a 3-0 win ove KV Kortrijk to maintain their dominance ni the Belgian A League.

        Azerbaijan
      
Hendrick Ekstein proved to be the match winner for Sabah, who claimed a 2-1 victory over QƏBƏLƏ on Sunday evening.
The former Kaizer Chiefs secured the winning goal in the 73rd minute with his second league goal of the season.

        China
      
Dino Ndlovu took his tally to 17 league goals this season after scoring what proved to be the winner as Zhejiang Greentown defeated Guandong South Tigers 2-1 on Saturday.

        Denmark
      
Liam Jordan was the hero for HB Koge, who recorded a 2-1 victory over Viborg on Saturday.
The former Bidves Wits attacker netted the winning goal in 89th minute for his third goal of the campaign.

        Portugal
      
Luther Singh played the full 90 minutes as Moreirense drew 1-1 with Vitoria Guimaraes on Saturday evening.
It was Singh's corner that led to Steven Vioria's equaliser in the 56th minute.

        United Arab Emirates
      
Thulani Serero played the full 90 minutes as Al Jazira played to a goalless draw with Al Ain on Friday evening.
