
# Hey Google, selling Home Mini alongside Nest Mini is extremely confusing

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:24:28+00:00**

Author: **Ben Schoon**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/07/google-home-mini-sales-nest-mini/)

The Google Home Mini was an insanely popular smart speaker that basically cemented Google Assistant’s place in the market. However, it now has a successor in the much better Nest Mini, making it a bit ridiculous that the two are still sold together.
It was only about a month ago that the Nest Mini was first announced, but it was clear from day one that it is a much better product than the Home Mini was. It has a louder, better speaker, a built-in wall mount, and it even uses recycled materials too. Also, it does all of that for the same $49 price tag.
However, nearly a month after it went up for pre-order, Google is still selling the two products side-by-side in most retail outlets. In the Google Store, this is especially confusing. There, the products are sold under the same category and there’s no mention of the Nest Mini on the Home Mini’s listing. Plus, they have the same price too.
The problem with this is that consumers who simply click a link or find an old ad might end up paying $50 for the Home Mini when they could buy the Nest Mini instead. It’s just misleading.

        No one should buy a Google Home Mini for $50 today
      
At retailers, the story is a bit different. Walmart and Best Buy both have the Google Home Mini discounted, bringing the price down to $39 and it will likely be even cheaper around the holidays. In the right setting, selling the two side-by-side makes sense in retail, but an example from our own Kyle Bradshaw saw the Home Mini being sold next to a prominent Nest Mini display at a Best Buy location.
Right now, having both of these products on sale at the same time for the same MSRP is confusing and will lead to a lot of customers buying the inferior product. Come on Google, don’t be evil about this.
I also love David Imel’s suggestion on what Google should do with the leftover Home Mini units.
