
# X Factor: Celebrity's Max and Harvey beg Simon Cowell not to axe them over prank

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:39:16+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factor-celebritys-max-harvey-20792908)

X Factor: Celebrity duo Max and Harvey are begging Simon Cowell not to axe them from the show after dressing up as him for Halloween .
The pair, who have made it to the second round of the live shows, shared the uncanny photo on their social media channels over the spooky holiday.
Clad in an outfit which resembled the hard-faced mentor, the teenage heartthrobs posed in crisp white shirts and black trousers behind the judges' desk.
But after posting the funny photo, the boys pleaded with Simon to not kick them off the show because of their Halloween prank.
Max and Harvey captioned the pictures: "This is quite possibly the stupidest thing we've ever done. Happy Halloween everybody. And happy Halloween @SimonCowell please don't kick us off for this."
Although Simon has yet to respond, fans have praised the singing pair for their joke and they love it.
One tweeted: "Pure gold! This is iconic!", while another admitted it was "priceless".
Their Halloween joke comes shortly after fellow contestant Brendan Cole was accused of making a rather "b****y" comment to the teen YouTube stars on the X Factor .
As each of the contestants made their first live performance on the new series, Brendan was heard making a snarky comment about the 16-year-olds.
As singing duo and social media sensations Max and Harvey took to the stage to perform, Brendan and Jeremy Edwards were seen eyeballing the teenagers.
Brendan confessed as he watched: "They say they've got eight million across social media but the reality is they've only got a chunk on each, and it's all the same."
But his comment sent  Twitter  into uproar as fans branded the star as "jealous" and "bitter".
However, Brendan later apologised for his comment.
In a post on  Twitter , he wrote: "It did sound very bitchy (shame on me) but make no mistake...
"You smashed your songs, our one song was pants and your talent speaks for itself.
"I’m off with my tail between my legs and you are amazing! Soz boys! You are amazing."

        
          Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webcelebs@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
        
      
