
# Amitabh Bachchan completes 50 years in Bollywood, son Abhishek pens a heartfelt note for his Pa

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:31:21+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/amitabh-bachchan-completes-50-years-in-bollywood-son-abhishek-pens-a-heartfelt-note-for-his-pa/articleshow/71948543.cms)

Bollywood witnessed the performance of a a genius actor 50 years ago as Amitabh Bachchan marked his big screen debut with ‘Saat Hindustani’, which released on November 7, 1969. Staying relevant even after clocking a golden jubilee in front of the camera is not easy feat and after putting in a lot of hard work, Big B continues to give some of the biggest stars of Bollywood a run for their money.
Celebrating Amitabh Bachchan’s cinematic contribution, son Abhishek penned a heartfelt note for his Pa on social media, he shared, “Not just as a son, but as an actor and a fan... We are all blessed to witness greatness! There is so much to admire, to learn and even more to appreciate. Several generations of cinema lovers get to say we lived in the times of BACHCHAN!!! Congratulations Pa on completing 50 years in the Film industry. We now await the next 50!”.
Fans of the veteran actor soon flooded Abhishek's post with praise for Big B, showering the legend with love. The 77 year old stalwart continues to charm fans and has quite a few films in the pipeline. Amitabh Bachchan will be seen in thriller ‘Chehre’ alongside Emraan Hashmi, he also has ‘Gulabo Sitabo’ with Ayushmann Khurrana. Ranbir Kapoor’s superhero drama ‘Brahmastra’ will see Big B in a pivotal role while the actor has also signed up to play the lead in National Award winning director Nagraj Manjule’s next, ‘Jhund’.
