
# Maruti Suzuki November 2019 Discounts – Alto, K10, Swift, Ertiga, Wagon R

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:53:26+00:00**

Author: **Team GaadiWaadi**

Original: [GaadiWaadi.com](https://gaadiwaadi.com/maruti-suzuki-november-2019-discounts-alto-k10-swift-ertiga-wagon-r/)

With this year’s Diwali season drawing to a close, several car manufacturers have reduced the discount offers on their models to some extent. Same is the case with Maruti Suzuki, which is now offering slightly less discount on most of its models, including top-sellers like Vitara Brezza, Swift and Dzire. Still, however, the buyers of Maruti Arena cars a benefit from some fantastic offers in November 2019. Here’s a model-wise breakup-
The most affordable model in the company’s lineup, the Alto 800, has been available with a BSVI engine that makes it future-proof. For the ongoing month, the Alto 800 is available with a cash discount of Rs 33,000 and a corporate offer of Rs 5,000. Furthermore, you can get an exchange bonus of Rs 15,000 if you sell your old car to Maruti Suzuki’s True Value used car wing. This takes the total discount to Rs 53,000, which leads to a pretty substantial reduction in the purchase price of this entry-level offering.
The Alto K10 is for those who want some more pep from the company’s budget offering. The 1000cc version of the Alto, like its 800cc version, is available with some fantastic discounts. For the month of November, you get a cash discount of Rs 28,000 and a corporate discount of Rs 5,000. Plus, you can benefit from an exchange bonus of Rs 15,000 on selling your old car to True Value. This translates into savings of up to Rs 48,000. Also, this offer is applicable on both manual and AMT variants of this entry-level model.
The Celerio is the one for you if you want a slightly more premium experience than what the Alto K10 offers. The tallboy hatchback, which is available in both petrol and CNG variants, is currently available with discounts of up to Rs 50,000. The petrol manual version gets a cash discount of Rs 25,000, while there is a cash discount of Rs 30,000 on the CNG and Petrol AMT models. There’s also a corporate discount worth Rs 5,000 and an exchange bonus of Rs 15,000.
The Maruti Eeco has been pretty successful with replacing the highly popular Omni van in the company’s model lineup. It is currently available with a cash discount of Rs 15,000 and an exchange bonus of Rs 20,000 in case you plan to sell your old vehicle to True Value.
While the 1.2-litre variant of the Maruti Wagon R has already received a BS6-compliant engine, the 1.0-litre variant continues to soldier on with a BS4-compliant motor. Anyway, regardless of what engine variant you choose, you can benefit from a corporate discount of Rs 5,000 and an exchange bonus of Rs 20,000 on selling your old car to Maruti Suzuki. There is currently no cash discount offer available on this tallboy.
Even the Maruti Swift is available with a BS6 petrol engine now, while its diesel engine, which can’t be upgraded to achieve BS6 compliance, will be discontinued around the advent of stricter emission norms on 1 April, 2020. Currently, the petrol version of the Maruti Swift is available with benefits worth Rs 45,000. There is a cash discount of Rs 20,000, along with an exchange bonus of Rs 20,000.
There’s also a corporate discount of Rs 5,000. The diesel engine variant, on the other hand, is available with a higher cash discount of Rs 25,000. It’s also being sold with a free 5-year warranty package, an exchange bonus worth Rs 20,000 and a higher corporate discount of Rs 10,000. All this lead to savings of a whopping Rs 65,000 if you factor in the cost of the additional warranty along with other discounts.
Even the Swift-based compact sedan, which has been one of the highest selling cars in the country, is available with some great discounts. The petrol version, which comes with a BS6-compliant engine, is available with a cash discount of Rs 25,000 and a corporate discount of Rs 5,000. You also get an exchange bonus of Rs 20,000.
On the other hand, the diesel variant, which, like that of the Swift, will be discontinued around the advent of BSVI norms, is available with some more lucrative discounts. There’s a cash discount of Rs 30,000, free 5-year warranty package, an exchange bonus of Rs 20,000 and a higher corporate discount worth Rs 5,000.
Even with slightly reduced discount schemes this month, the Maruti Vitara Brezza, the top-selling compact SUV in the country, is available with some great offers. There is a cash discount of whopping Rs 38,000, along with a free 5-year warranty package and a corporate discount of Rs 10,000.
Plus, you can get an exchange bonus of Rs 20,000 on selling your old car to Maruti Suzuki. It may be noted here that the Brezza is about to receive a slew of updates, which will include a new set of engines, updated styling and some new features. For now, these discounts are available on both manual and AMT variants. Thanks to these discounts, the Brezza comes across as a great value for money proposition.
It may be noted here that the Maruti S-Presso, which was launched recently and has garnered a good response, isn’t available with any sort of discounts. Moreover, we don’t see this situation changing anytime soon.
On the other hand, even the Maruti Ertiga, which recently received a BS6-compliant 1.5-litre petrol engine and a 1.5-litre diesel engine before that, isn’t on sale with any sort of discount offer. The 1.3-litre diesel engine option of the Ertiga was discontinued a while back but you can ask the local dealerships if they have leftover stocks selling at huge discounts.
Similarly, you can ask for old stock of even cars like the Alto, Swift and Dzire, which recently received BS6-compliant petrol motors. The key here is to bargain hard at the dealership near you to extract the maximum discounts.
While Maruti has finally seen a positive growth in its YoY sales in month of October, the general state of market is still not very good and the dealerships might end up offering some additional discounts keeping in mind the sales slowdown that tends to hit the car industry around the year-end. Hence, the key to achieve maximum discounts on the Maruti Arena cars will be to bargain hard at the dealerships.
