
# FTC's new disclosure guidelines for influencers leaves no room for misunderstanding

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:09:25+00:00**

Author: **Andy Chalk**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/ftcs-new-disclosure-guidelines-for-influencers-leaves-no-room-for-misunderstanding/)

The Federal Trade Commission has had a bit of a strained relationship with influencers over the years. Conventional advertisers are easy enough to deal with—there's no mistaking an ad when one pops up in the middle of NCIS: Los Angeles—but YouTube personalities can be trickier to pin down.
A few examples: In 2015 a group of YouTubers enthusiastically promoted the game Dead Realm with a series of "Let's Play" videos, without disclosing that they were involved in its development. That same year, Machinima settled deceptive advertising charges over its failure to disclose that it had paid influencers for their "seemingly objective opinions." A year later, WBIE reached a similar settlement with the FTC over its failure to require YouTubers including Felix “PewDiePie” Kjellberg to disclose that they were paid to promote Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor. In 2017, the FTC issued a warning to Trevor "TmarTn" Martin and Tom "ProSyndicate" Cassell for promoting the skin gambling site CSGO Lotto without disclosing that they also owned it.
The CSGO Lotto incident resulted in a mass mailing of "educational letters" to influencers, warning that "if you are endorsing a brand and have a 'material connection' with the marketer … then your connection should be clearly and conspicuously disclosed." Another round of similar letters went out earlier this year.
But who reads long letters from The Man, right? So now it appears that the FTC is trying to nail down influencer guidelines more clearly and unmistakably with "Disclosures 101 for Social Media Influencers," a simple, easy-to-follow guide that "provides influencers with tips from FTC staff about what triggers the need for a disclosure and offers examples of both effective and ineffective disclosures."
"The guide and accompanying videos underscore that the responsibility to make disclosures about endorsements lies with the influencer," the FTC said. "The guide outlines the various ways that an influencer’s relationship with a brand would make disclosures necessary, and it reminds influencers that they cannot assume that followers are aware of their connections to brands."
Appropriately, there's a video, too:
