
# Real Madrid set to beat Barcelona to shock defensive target

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:12:33+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/03/real-madrid-set-beat-barcelona-shock-defensive-target/)

Barcelona dropped three more points on Saturday evening after their 3-1 defeat to Levante in La Liga Santander. Fortunately for them, Real Madrid were unable to take advantage against Real Betis and thus, the Catalans do remain on top of the table even though it is only on goal difference now.
Ernesto Valverde’s tactics and team selection was once again questioned, while questions were once again raised of the defence. Gerard Pique had a bad game, indicating once again that Barca need to sign a replacement for him. Given how good Pique has been for the team, his replacement will need to have proven credentials in the past.
Liverpool superstar Virgil van Dijk is on the Blaugrana’s radar, according to Diario GOL. The Netherlands international has been incredible for the Reds since checking in from Southampton and a wonderful campaign through 2018/19 has seen him compete with Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi for the Ballon d’Or.
Jurgen Klopp obviously counts on Virgil van Dijk as his side has spent a record breaking 75 million euros on the central defender, but an offer from Barca or Madrid is always difficult to turn down. Moreover, if van Dijk wins the Premier League this year then he might as well head to Spain for a newer challenge.
Real Madrid are expected to give Barcelona a tough fight in the hunt for Virgil van Dijk, who is clearly a surprise target for both the clubs. Florentino Perez will reportedly pay 20 million euros more than the Blaugrana, and at 130 million euros as an approximate transfer fee for the centre back, Liverpool would have made a profit of 50 million euros on his potential sale.
Do you think Virgil van Dijk will leave Liverpool for one of the Spanish superpowers anytime soon?
