
# Red Bull Racing sets goal for 2020: Be competitive from race one

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Gretton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49510/red-bull-racing-sets-goal-for-2020-be-competitive-from-race-one-.html)


        Helmut Marko predicted that Aston Martin Red Bull Racing would win five races across the 2019 F1 season, but that is now impossible with just two Grands Prix remaining. Max Verstappen won races in Austria and Germany as the RB15 was strong through the summer period, but things were quiet at the start and the end of the season. 
      
Red Bull Racing advisor Helmut Marko is now looking ahead of the 2020 F1 season. Verstappen recorded just two podiums in the first eight races and it seems as if Marko knows where the team need to improve. 
"The goal is to be competitive from race one next year. We have learned from our mistakes and, rightly this time, we are optimistic about our title chances," Marko told Motorsport-Total. 

        "One of those mistakes was that we were late with the car and were not in the first few races where we wanted to be."
      
Marko is confident the team will be able to get the RB16 out sooner with the teams top designer Adrian Newey already fully focused on next year's challenger. Without a doubt, an early podium place would have been handy for Verstappen who currently sits just 14 points shy of third-placed Charles Leclerc in the F1 world championship standings. 
"He is fully involved and active in the 2020 season. He is not an employee for sixty hours a week, but the time agreed with him is used. The distribution is organized in such a way that it is sufficient for the world championship," Marko added. 
