
# On-loan midfielder George Cooper tops Plymouth Argyle player ratings for October

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/loan-midfielder-george-cooper-tops-3488672)

George Cooper was the Plymouth Argyle player-of-the-month for October, according to the Plymouth Live ratings given after every game.
The loan signing from Peterborough United had suffered a broken nose and a fractured cheekbone in the Pilgrims’ 1-0 win at Mansfield Town at the end of September.
Cooper missed Argyle’s first two matches in October due to those facial injuries.
However, the 22-year-old returned to action only a fortnight afterwards.
Cooper wore a protective mask when he played as a second half substitute in the 1-1 draw away to Swindon Town in League Two.
It was Cooper who provided the assist when Joel Grant scored the Pilgrims’ late equaliser.
Cooper did not need the protective mask any more when he lined up for Argyle in the 2-0 home league win against Carlisle United the following Saturday.
His average Plymouth Live rating for October was 7.00 from five games.
That included a nine out of 10 when the Pilgrims beat Carl Fletcher’s Leyton Orient 4-0 at Home Park.
The runner-up to Cooper was midfielder Antoni Sarcevic, who average 6.57 from seven games.
Sarcevic also finished second in the September ratings, when the top marks went to defender Will Aimson.
There was a nine out of 10 for Sarcevic in Argyle’s 3-0 EFL Trophy win at Swindon on October 8.
In third place, behind Cooper and Sarcevic, was defender Scott Wootton, who averaged 6.50 from six matches.
George Cooper 7.00 (5)
Antoni Sarcevic 6.57 (7)
Scott Wootton 6.50 (6)
Will Aimson 6.33 (3)
Niall Canavan 6.20 (5)
Zak Rudden 6.16 (6)
Joel Grant 6.14 (7)
Gary Sawyer 6.14 (7)
Joe Riley 6.00 (7)
Joe Edwards 6.00 (6)
Callum McFadzean 6.00 (6)
Alex Palmer 6.00 (5)

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
Josh Grant 5.66 (3)
Byron Moore 5.50 (4)
Billy Clarke 5.33 (3)
Danny Mayor 5.25 (4)
* Number of games played in brackets.
Jose Baxter, Mike Cooper, Conor Grant, Adam Randell and Ryan Taylor did not play the minimum number of three games.
