
# Rugby World Cup Final: Eddie Jones lost for answers after England are blown away

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:26:01+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/rugby-world-cup-final-eddie-20800545)

Eddie Jones was driven to drink after his England side were left battered and bloodied by a World Cup final hammering.
Jones, the coach with an answer for everything, had no explanation for the way his side were mauled by underdogs South Africa.
“I don't know why we didn't play well,” said the Australian, who admitted they would feel the pain for the next four years. “The only thing I am worried about now is having a few beers, and that's the only thing we will worry about.
"And then after we have a few beers today, we will probably have a few more beers tomorrow and maybe Monday, and then maybe we will have to pull up stumps.”
 
In a brutal contest Kyle Sinckler was knocked out in the third minute and Billy Vunipola left blood splattered by a nasty head wound.
But the real wounds were to English morale after Jones endured the heaviest defeat of his 50-Test England career in the biggest game.
“It's not a good day for it to happen,” he admitted, as Siya Kolisi was congratulated by Prince Harry on becoming the first black World Cup-winning captain.
 
“We couldn’t get on the front foot, we were dominated in the scrum, they were too good for us at the breakdown.
"You can have the most investigative debrief of your game and you still don't know what was wrong,
“We are going to be kicking stones for four years, and it is hard to kick stones for four years, so we are massively disappointed.”
 
A week after taking the All Blacks to the cleaners England were blown away by the ferocity of the Springboks.
They never recovered from the loss of Sinckler, conceding six scrum penalties in a contest which they never led.
“Words can’t do justice to how I’m feeling,” the prop later admitted on Instagram . “Biggest moment in my life and not even being able to get a chance to shoot my shot.
“Sport is cruel but we can never let adversity get the better of us. We as a team will come back stronger.”
