
# McDonald’s CEO Fired For ‘Consensual’ Relationship With Employee

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:15:48+00:00**

Author: **Emily Brown**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/mcdonalds-ceo-fired-for-consensual-relationship-with-employee/)


        The CEO of McDonald’s has been fired from his £12 million-a-year job after having a relationship with an employee. 
      
The fast-food giant forbids bosses from having romantic relationships with subordinates, regardless of whether they directly manage them.
British boss Steve Easterbrook, 52, lost his job after breaking this rule and getting involved in a relationship – a decision he has since described as a ‘mistake’.
The divorced father-of-three had been with the company on and off for over two decades after initially joining as a manager in London in 1993. He left to become the boss of Pizza Express in 2011, followed by a stint with Wagamama, before returning to McDonald’s in 2013. He was appointed chief executive of the fast food chain in 2015.
Easterbrook addressed his misconduct in an email to staff, in which he accepted McDonald’s decision to let him go.

        He wrote:
      
Following a review of the situation, the McDonald’s board voted to fire the CEO on Friday, November 1. Easterbrook has also stepped down as McDonald’s president and a member of the board.
The company said the relationship was consensual but backed its decision by explaining the boss had ‘violated company policy’ and shown ‘poor judgement’.
The name of the employee involved in the relationship has not been released.
Easterbrook will be replaced by Chris Kempczinski, who most recently held the role of president of McDonald’s US. Kempczinski will take over the job with immediate effect.
In a statement, Kempczinski thanked Easterbrook for his contributions and described him as a ‘patient and helpful mentor’.

        The new CEO went on to express his excitement in leading the company, saying:
      
Easterbrook has been widely credited with revitalising McDonald’s menus and restaurants by remodelling stores and using better ingredients. He also raised workers’ pay above minimum wage and gave different regions more control over their menus.
The value of McDonald’s shares more than doubled during Easterbrook’s stint in the US. Under his leadership, the company also expanded its delivery and mobile payment options to emphasise convenience.
McDonald’s is expected to release details of Easterbrook’s severance package at some point today, November 4.

        Emily Brown
      
Emily Brown first began delivering important news stories aged just 13, when she launched her career with a paper round. She graduated with a BA Hons in English Language in the Media from Lancaster University, and went on to become a freelance writer and blogger. Emily contributed to The Sunday Times Travel Magazine and Student Problems before becoming a journalist at UNILAD, where she works on breaking news as well as longer form features.
