
# Apex Legends gets a firing range and Daily Challenge re-rolls

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:44:18+00:00**

Author: **Andy Chalk**

Original: [PC Gamer](https://www.pcgamer.com/apex-legends-gets-a-firing-range-and-daily-challenge-re-rolls/)

Courtesy of the 3.1 patch that went live today, Apex Legends now—finally—has a firing range. Players can enter the firing range from the Apex lobby, alone or with their squad, where they can test all the weapons, items, and characters available in the game.
Players will have full access to each character's abilities and ultimates, and all loot items, including attachments and hop-ups, will also be on hand for testing. Target dummies will let you work on your headshot skills, and EA said that "future improvements" are coming. Even in its initial state, though, the firing range sounds like it's got all the important bases covered—and let me also take a moment to say that it's about damn time.
The update also makes to Daily Challenges, which will now offer players one easy, one medium, and one hard challenge each day, and will enable players to reroll their Daily Challenges at an increasing cost in Legend Tokens: 200 tokens for the first reroll, 500 for the second, and 1000 for the third and beyond. 
Legend Tokens are earned through gameplay, and have come under criticism in the past for not being especially useful: As redditor HisShoeIsHisPhone pointed out, heavy grinders can run out of things to spend them on relatively quickly, so Daily Challenge rerolls will hopefully alleviate some of that frustration, too. The reroll cost will reset each day.
Other changes include "improved flow from Lobby to Match," the elimination of a match-leaving penalty in ranked mode, some tweaks to Crypto and Bangalore, and bug fixes. And last but definitely not least, the time-limited Duos Mode announced last week is live too—it's scheduled to run until November 19.
The full changelog is below.

        Firing Range:
      

        Weapons:
      

        Wingman:
      
Changes to Projectile Collision: We’ve increased the projectile width on the some weapons so they are easier to hit with. We made this change to the TripleTake in Season 2 and the following will be updated for this patch:

        Quality of Life:
      

        Ranked Mode: 
      

        Bug Fixes:
      

        Legends:
      

        Crypto:
      

        Bangalore:
      
