
# Singaporean singer turns hate comments about teeth, make-up into catchy Tamil song (VIDEO)

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:31:16+00:00**

Author: **BY TAN MEI ZI**

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/showbiz/2019/11/01/singaporean-singer-turns-hate-comments-about-teeth-make-up-into-catchy-tami/1805890)

PETALING JAYA, Nov 1 — Singaporean singer Suthasini Rajenderan has to deal with her fair share of online bashing but she never lets herself get bogged down by it.
In fact, the Vasantham Star 2011 winner found a way to put a positive spin on comments that often take aim at her teeth and make-up.
Using mean statements plucked from the YouTube comments section, Suthasini crafted a catchy Tamil song that features the words of her haters as lyrics.
Her video has been blowing up on the internet and has even caught the attention of veteran actress Mumtaz Askari, who personally contacted Suthasini to congratulate her on her maturity in dealing with online hate.
“She called me and said, ‘I’m really very proud of you. With your generation these days, hate comments are not handled in a very positive manner. You did it in a positive way,’” Suthasini told Channel News Asia.
Some of the comments spotlighted in the song are, “I just hate you”, “Your voice is super but your teeth is comedy [sic]”, and “Dance and voice is super but please don’t smile”.
The song’s hook is made up of the word “mokka”, a Tamil slang insult used to describe something or someone as “deathly boring”.
