
# Tesco apologise to angry Plymouth family over turkey mix-up

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:14:34+00:00**

Author: **Miles O&#39;Leary**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/tesco-apologise-angry-plymouth-family-3513361)

Tesco has said sorry to a Plymouth family who were made to hand over their receipts after they went shopping to prove they had paid.
But the retail giant says there was nothing wrong with the way staff conducted themselves on the day Claire Harrison and her loved ones visited the Transit Way supermarket branch.
Mum of five Claire was left fuming after her husband, auntie and mum were confronted by staff at the self-service tills.
The Sherford mum-of-five claimed cashiers were rude and grabbed hold of her auntie's receipt right out of her handbag and ripped another from her hubby's clutches.
She has vowed to never step foot inside the busy shop ever again after the episode.
Claire's mum was also made to hand over a receipt for a Christmas turkey she bought. She initially lost it at first but managed to find it at the bottom of her shopping trolley.
Tesco said spot-checks are carried out routinely with shoppers - and its actions towards Claire and her family weren't personal.
In a statement to Plymouth Live, a Tesco spokesperson said: "We are sorry to hear that Ms Harrison and her family were unhappy about their experience in the store.
"It is very common for our colleagues to carry out spot checks at self-service checkouts, particularly during busy lunch time periods, and we can confirm that the correct procedures were followed."
Claire told how she felt humiliated by the store's actions on Wednesday, November 6.
"I have been going there for the last eight years and I will never, ever step foot in there again," she raged.
"I am a 31-year-old mum with five kids, I ain't no criminal."
Claire and her loved ones visited Tesco after being appalled with the price of a turkey bird from Morrisons - where they're reportedly going for £30 a pop.
In the end they snapped up a £20 turkey in Tesco, deciding against the slighter cheaper £16 one because it looked 'dented'.
"My mum, she paid for her stuff on her bank card and bought a turkey for Christmas separately," Claire explained.
"They asked her for her receipt and she didn't know what she had done with it.
"She thought she might have left it in the shopping trolley. She found it and it was yanked out of her hand.
"There was no apology, nothing."
Claire says the checkout area was packed full of shoppers - but no-one else was confronted.
Readers on Plymouth Live's Facebook page said random spot-checks were quite common at Transit Way and in another other supermarket.
Heather Jones said: "It's pretty standard in any supermarket for staff to stop folk who have gone through self-service tills to be stopped and checked that they paid for everything.
Markpeter Woodbridge said: "The shop has every right to ask for a receipt, it's nothing personal, if you have nothing to hide then you have nothing to worry about, end of."
Tammy Sawyer said: "Just a random check don't make it more then it is lol."
Whilst others have jumped to the defence of staff at the store.
Kate-Louise Power said: "The staff have a job to do I very much doubt they snatched receipts out of hands."

        
          Have you got a story to tell? Call Miles O'Leary on 01752 293 066 or email miles.oleary@reachplc.com
        
      
