
# London Footwear Brand, Air & Grace Launch Their Boot Line Right In Time For Fall

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Felicity Carter**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/felicitycarter/2019/11/01/london-footwear-brand-air--grace-launch-their-boot-line-right-in-time-for-fall/)

Air & Grace is the British footwear brand known for not only their smart business acumen, but also luxe sneakers, and now they've added boots to their offering. 
Brought to you by ex-fashion buyer Claire Burrows, the range of boots includes hiker, western and studded styles and they've launched right in time for fall weather. Each style merges fashion and comfort, yes comfort thanks to their patented Tender Loving Air® technology (an invisible layer of memory and recovery foam hidden inside to ensure a stylish spring in your step).
And the messaging behind the brand is brilliant. Whether it's their sneakers or boots, the line is designed to transcend seasons and to be loved all year round. Fast fashion think not, their permanent collection consists of their best-selling pairs making it smart fashion, just like the women behind the brand, and they are proudly a 100% female business.

        Felicity Carter: What was your first fashionable memory?
      
Claire Burrows: When I was young, I loved drawing, especially dresses, proper Cinderella style princess dresses. My mum would make our clothes and she tried to teach me dressmaking. I had lots of ideas, but I wasn't very good. I made crazy outfits to go clubbing in which would fall apart by the end of the night. When I finally made it to fashion college I'd save up everything I had to buy Vivienne Westwood pieces. I still have them all and still wear them. I really believe that style is eternal and good design transcends time.

        FC: How, when, why did you get into the industry?
      
CB: It was a dream of mine to go to London College of Fashion. After a close call where I nearly pursued a career as an accountant, I was offered a place to study fashion management (much to my accountant's relief). That was it - I was hooked. I had never intended to go into footwear, but I saw a job for a buying assistant at Office shoes and that set the direction of my career, nearly 25 years ago. I continued to work in the footwear industry as a buyer, designer and product development for international brands until I took the leap to start Air & Grace. I was frustrated with the idea that comfortable shoes couldn't be covetable shoes, so I decided to do something about it.

        FC: How would you sum up the aesthetic of Air & Grace?
      
CB: I recently heard it described as "just the right side of statement whilst still looking effortless" and I'll take that! Our shoes always have a little something that makes them stand out from the norm, but without looking too try hard. And it's incredibly important to me to design with longevity in mind. It's a difficult line to navigate, we have endless conversations about "is it Air & Grace"? at the design studio. We think about how we would wear a shoe, what we would wear it with, who of our friends and family would wear it, and would we still be excited to wear it in a few years time? We're not about flash in the pan fast fashion. It's a very considered process. We have a "permanent collection" of favourite styles that, as the name suggests, are always in the range from season to season and we commit to never discounting them, so customers can buy in confidence that they are getting the best price.

        FC: Who is your customer?
      
CB: The Air & Grace customer is every woman who cares about style, quality, comfort and where and how the products she consumes are made. It's very important to her to buy less and choose well. She understands the value of responsibly sourced, ethically made products and actively seeks them out.

        FC: What's your signature pair and how did it come about?
      
CB: I'm going to have to say the signature pair is our signature range. It's a version of our best-selling Cru trainer with our ‘A’ logo on the side and oh my, it has been loved. We make our shoes in small runs to avoid overproduction, so we released the signature range on pre-order and sold out 3 runs before the first delivery. The style came about because we'd been asked a lot for a clean version of our distressed Cru trainer and this was our answer to that request. We gain a lot of insight through social media and ask our followers which products they want to see from us. It's something I am really thankful for. We have a long list of requests and we're doing our best to accommodate them.

        FC: Tell us about the production process...
      
CB: It's a long process! It starts in London at our design studio, but we manufacture all of our shoes in Portugal and Spain. We design everything from scratch and have to create all our own lasts to accommodate our patented Tender Loving Air comfort footbed. That's the tricky bit, getting the shoes to look amazing as well as feel amazing. I travel to our factories regularly to follow the design and development process. Once proto samples are received we put all of our shoes through extensive fit and wear trialling. If they don't meet our high standards, we start again, and again, until they are approved. This process is costly, but we feel it's essential to provide the comfort and quality of our products. It takes approximately a year for us to create a new style - I guess that's slow fashion?!

        FC: Currently which is your favourite pair and how do you wear it/them?
      
CB: I am OBSESSED with my Jessa boots. I'm yet to find an outfit that they don't go with and they feel as comfortable as our trainers. But I feel like I'm cheating on the others! I go through phases of wearing our newest styles on repeat, but I always go back to rediscover previous favourites season after season. I go back to wear styles that are 5 years old and they still look current. We don't believe in fast fashion fads.

        FC: What are your immediate and long term goals for your company?
      
CB: We have so many exciting plans in the mix I don't know where to start. We're launching a vegan range in January and we just moved to new premises in Bermondsey Street where we will be holding a series of Open Studio events. I am thankful that our shoes have been so well received and I am doing everything I can to respond to requests for different categories and styles. We really have only just got started and there is so much more to do. But as long as we are making great looking, super comfortable shoes then I am happy.
See the full range of footwear and shop the label on their website.
