
# The ‘Bitcoin time-traveler’ Reddit post has been edited, but nobody knows who did it

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:00:53+00:00**

Author: **David Canellis**

Original: [Hard Fork | The Next Web](https://thenextweb.com/hardfork/2019/11/04/bitcoin-time-traveler-reddit-cryptocurrency-history-post-edited-who/?utm_campaign=tweet5)

A mystery is playing out on the Bitcoin BTC subreddit: the infamous ‘Bitcoin time traveller’ post has been edited, and nobody knows who did it.
In 2013, a Reddit user appeared to present a bleak outlook of the year 2025, where rampant inequality and parabolic Bitcoin value has pushed the world to the brink of collapse.
The post is absolutely ridiculous, but surprisingly, it appears someone has recently doctored it to read as if OP themselves returned to edit the post, despite their account being deleted years ago.
Strangely, it’s now prefaced with: “Well gee, this blew up, Bitcoin should not be treated as an investment, it should be recognized as a speculative negative-sum game.”
The editor then launches into scathing attacks on its mining infrastructure and the software developers that maintain its code.
As a self-professed time-traveler, OP claimed that on average, the value of Bitcoin would increase by “about a factor ten” every year: from $0.10 in 2010, to $1 in 2011, to $10 in 2012, and so on.
This trend would eventually lead a single Bitcoin to be worth $1 million by 2021. From then, there will be apparently no good way to express Bitcoin‘s value in dollars, as the dollar is no longer used. In this version of the future, “land and cryptocurrency” will be the only relevant assets of value left.
OP’s post is also the origin of “Bitcoin Citidels,” automated future-cities formed by the “Bitcoin rich” to protect themselves (as well as their worth) from “no-coiners.”
Bitcoin Citadels have evolved into a permanent part of the Bitcoin vernacular; a meme to help imagine what life would be like post-hyperbitcoinization.
