
# Xiaomi Mi Note 10 specs: 108MP camera, Snapdragon 730G, and 5260mAh battery

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/xiaomi-mi-note-10-specs?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Harish Jonnalagadda/Android Central
      
Xiaomi has unveiled the Mi Note 10 for global markets, and the standout feature is a 108MP camera that's joined by four other sensors at the back. Two of those lenses are for optical zoom, with the latter able to do 5x optical and 50x digital zoom. There's also a curved AMOLED panel, a monstrous 5260mAh battery, and a gaming-focused Snapdragon 730G chipset.
The device also runs MIUI 11 out of the box, and yes, there is a 3.5mm jack. Here's all the hardware powering the phone:
Interested in knowing more about the Mi Note 10? Be sure to read our preview for all the details:

        Xiaomi Mi Note 10 preview: Meet the world's first phone with a 108MP camera
      

        come closer Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity Ultrasonic sensing is now rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max, which allows them to dynamically change what is on the display as you get closer or further away.
      

        Did You Hear That Nest Secure will soon be able to detect breaking windows Nest Secure's microphone will soon be able to do more than just take Assistant commands. Beginning in early November, Google will enable Glass break detection which will allow it to sound the alarm when a window breaks.
      

        Because I'm happppyyyy Are you happy with the Pixel 4? The Pixel 4 has received a lot of criticism since its release, but taking a look through the AC forums, many people are really happy with the phone. What about you?
      

        Buyer's guide These are the best rugged Android phones Living the rough and tumble life? Get yourself a smartphone that can handle everything you throw at it — or throw your phone at.
      
