
# Disruptors: Jeffrey Katzenberg - Exclusive Interview (On Being Fearless, Steve Jobs, Netflix, Quibi & The Future of Entertainment)

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Csathy**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/petercsathy/2019/11/02/disruptors-jeffrey-katzenbergexclusive-interview-on-being-fearless-steve-jobs-netflix-quibi--the-future-of-entertainment/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2796695874&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

Last week I sat down with entertainment mogul Jeffrey Katzenberg whose latest venture is mobile-first, millennial-focused video subscription service Quibi. Much is written about Quibi and its bold, brash $1+ billion experiment that takes Hollywood talent, production and budgets to the mobile screen for the first time. And Katzenberg certainly faces skeptics (I recently wrote a piece for Forbes titled The Case For And Against Katzenberg’s Quibi). Katzenberg himself has publicly stated that Quibi’s success “falls somewhere between the improbable and impossible.” So, why would Katzenberg go “there” and stake his reputation on his latest and perhaps most audacious big bet?
Short answer, Katzenberg is a fearless media-tech disruptor who can’t slow down. And it’s that kind of fearlessness that drives any kind of entrepreneurial disruption and innovation forward (and the entertainment business is no exception). He may succeed with Quibi. He may not. But know this. All major studios have signed on for the ride. All invested big in Quibi, because they know that if Katzenberg can’t succeed with his game-changing mobile-first vision for premium Hollywood quality entertainment, then probably no one can. He has assembled all of the right pieces. Right here, right now.
I deliberately chose Katzenberg to be my first interview in this new media-tech focused Disruptors series precisely because of all this. These are the kinds of interviews I intend to bring to you, and Katzenberg’s Quibi partner-in-crime Meg Whitman comes next. Whitman shares those same fearless entrepreneurial traits. My goal with these Disruptors interviews will be to showcase these media, entertainment and tech innovators and give you new insights you can’t find anywhere else. Some of my guests will be legends like Katzenberg and Whitman. Some won’t, and instead will be under-the-radar disruptive media-tech innovators and entrepreneurs who should be on your radar. But all of these featured disruptors should be respected for the fearless players that they are. After all, it takes a special and rare kind of constitution to break new ground and shed doubt on the doubters. An entrepreneurial life is not for the faint of heart.
With my Katzenberg interview below, I had no interest in covering well-worn ground about Quibi. You can find that elsewhere (although I did drill down on specific points that merit deeper analysis, including Quibi’s business model). Rather, my primary goal here was to get a real sense of a man who, as he says, “swings for the fences” in everything he does. First, as a young assistant for Hollywood legend Barry Diller who was then Chairman of Paramount Pictures. Then, as Paramount’s President of Production at the young age of 29, where he reported to Michael Eisner. Next, as top dog of Disney’s motion picture group after Eisner became Disney’s CEO and took Katzenberg with him. Later, after being fired from Disney, when he formed his own studio, DreamWorks, with fellow moguls Steven Spielberg and David Geffen. And now with Quibi, after having made some significant digital moves in between, like buying - and then selling at a 5X return - digital-first video pioneer AwesomenessTV. Katzenberg, ever the disruptor, was well ahead of virtually all other “traditional” entertainment executives when he jumped head first into the digitally-driven, transformed media and entertainment world.
What motivates Katzenberg? Whom does he admire? What does he think about Netflix, Spotify and their quest for elusive long-term profitability? And, how will the entertainment business evolve not just next year, but over the next ten years? With that, here we go. Round one. (Note: I have made some very minor edits to our Q&A for the sake of clarity.)

        I. KATZENBERG: ON WHAT MOTIVATES HIM
      

        Jeffrey, given all the success you’ve had, what is it that drives you from a fundamental perspective to do what you do? What motivates you to run hard and keep running? Obviously, you don’t need to come into the office and take several breakfast meetings each day.
      
JK: I think it’s a bunch of things, and they sort of intersect with one another. First and perhaps most fundamentally, which has been true my entire life, work is happiness for me. I’m happy when I’m working. I’m happy when I have tasks and things that have to get done. And it’s been true whether I’ve been a twenty year old kid as a gopher, Barry Diller’s assistant, or chasing the sun, the moon, the stars, and pretty much the whole galaxy, which is what we’re doing now [here at Quibi]. I have tended to be my happiest when I have something that seems to fall between what’s improbable and impossible. And in a way that’s kind of hard for me to explain. 
Pretty much every chapter of my career began with “well, that’s a tall mountain,” or “maybe that’s not gonna work out so well,” or “I don’t know, that’s a tall order.” Whether it was when I went to work for [New York City’s then-Mayor] John Lindsay. Or whether I was a 16 year old teenager, or going to work for Barry Diller as his assistant and becoming head of Paramount at a very, very young age. Going to Disney with Michael Eisner. Everybody had thought we had lost our minds. Why would you go there [to Disney]? The place is dead. Finished. The place was in its nadir. If you look at the history of the Walt Disney Company and the great highs and lows, and then greater highs, and the greatest highs that they have today. If you had to pick a place where it was probably bottom of the bottom of the bottom, it was 1984 when we [Michael Eisner and I] went there. And starting DreamWorks, starting the first studio in 65 years, everybody went “Well, that’s not gonna work.” You know Steven [Spielberg] and David [Geffen] as partners, you go, “Great, but that’s not gonna work, the three of them in one sandbox; and it’s just a different era and different time, no one is going to be able to start a new studio.” So, spinning off and building an animation studio only. Quibi is just the latest chapter in that somewhere between improbable and impossible. And so that’s happiness squared.

        II. KATZENBERG: ON WHOM HE RESPECTS & WHO INSPIRES HIM
      

        When you think about other disruptors, and those who operate in the same realm and mindset of your “improbable to impossible,” whom do you respect in the worlds of media and entertainment?
      
JK: In the world that surrounds me, Bob Iger, Ted Sarandos, Tim Cook and Eddie Cue, Jeff Bezos. These are the greatest of them all. And one that I had a very bumpy relationship with was Steve Jobs. I made that very first deal for Pixar at Disney, the three picture deal that started with Toy Story. And I don’t know how many people this is true of, I'm told it’s not a lot, that in Steve Jobs’ world, people fell into one of two categories. You either were a shithead or a genius, and I had the distinction of having been both several times. I’m told that usually when you’re a shithead you never recover. And those were literally the words. I kind of ping ponged back and forth. No question [Steve Jobs was] brilliant, inspiring.

        Is there anybody who’s under the radar, whom you feel is doing really amazing, transformational things in the media and entertainment world?
      
JK: The person who was my mentor and the one that I’ve admired and continue [to admire], and even as I’ve started WndrCo [Katzenberg’s parent company to Quibi] I actually look to his path to find mine, is Barry Diller. Barry is one of the great disruptors of our generation. He has reinvented himself time and time and time again. Walked out on top of his career in this industry, and discovered this new world of the Internet and sort of said, “hmm, I’m gonna go figure that out.” He’s created $70 to $80 billion of market cap and is still going as strong today as ever, and is a renaissance man. He’s an intellectual. He has curiosity above and beyond almost anybody. He is incredibly well read and incredibly articulate and is a great storyteller in his own right. And he appreciates art and artists. So he’s kind of the sort of “got it all.”

        III. KATZENBERG: ON NETFLIX & SPOTIFY (& THEIR QUEST FOR ELUSIVE LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY)
      

        Let me ask you about Netflix because you mentioned Ted Sarandos as someone you admire. When I was listening to an earlier interview of you at SXSW, you mentioned that you really admired both Netflix and Spotify and believe they will be long-term winners. I want to probe that just a bit. When you look at both companies, neither is anywhere near long-term profitability. In fact, Netflix just recently added an additional $2 billion in debt to add to its existing $12+ billion debt burden. So when you look at Netflix’s and Spotify’s subscription-focused business models, which are very much unlike Apple’s and Amazon’s that use content to drive underlying core hardware sales or Prime memberships, what do you think about Netflix’s and Spotify’s prospects for reaching long-term profitability?
      
JK: I would say it’s working great for them [Netflix and Spotify], but that’s not the path that Meg and I have chosen for Quibi. Both of them [Netflix and Spotify] in their sort of fundamental design and architecture is to build the audience, and then we’ll figure out how to profitably monetize that over time. And again, I cannot argue with the success they are enjoying. Whatever you want to say, they [Netflix] have a $150 billion market cap and Spotify’s market cap is phenomenal. And both Reed [Hastings] and Ted [Sarandos], and Daniel [Ek] (Spotify’s CEO) are phenomenal entrepreneurs and visionaries. That specific model that they have is not the model that Meg and I have pursued for Quibi. Maybe we’re old dogs. We are old school. We’ve grown up in a world where you actually have to make money. You have to have profits. In both of our cases, because we both have been public company CEOs, you actually had to do it reliably, repeatedly and predictably. So we bring that bias. And interestingly, that bias is actually about to become very popular again because that other path, at least very recently – in the last six, eight, ten weeks – has revealed itself to be very flawed and very problematic for a number of companies that have tried to go to the public markets for incremental investment. 
Our business model is literally built on a high margin, profitable business that is not dependent upon first gaining scale to figure out how to become profitable. We will be profitable along the way, and the business is designed literally within three years for us to actually be a cash flow positive business even at the scale of what we’re doing. Meg is bringing extraordinary experience and discipline and a history of running very very reliable, predictable, profitable businesses. That’s among her many superpowers. As the CEO of this company, she’s brought that discipline, because I’m the dreamer and she’s the practical one. Our plans for Quibi are built on accommodating both. So plan for the worst, and shoot for the best.

        IV. KATZENBERG: ON THE FUTURE OF ENTERTAINMENT (& THE PROSPECTS FOR OTHER PLAYERS IN THESE STREAMING WARS)
      

        I want to get into your mind. When you’re looking at the worlds of media and entertainment, how do you believe they will transform in the next decade? What do you see happening?
      
JK: Well, I actually think it’s gonna happen in two to three years. I don’t think it’s going to take a decade. We are going to see consumer habits which have already shown very strong indications around this - that are going to coalesce into basically three consumption habits in three buckets. One of these has [already] revealed itself and has certainty around its path. The second is in the very midst of unprecedented transformation. And the other is nascent. So I look at a consumer and take an 18 to 44 year old, and I look at what their consumption is going to be around the bucket of their entertainment. We have a duopoly in music, and I think that duopoly is now actually going to strengthen and grow for Spotify and Apple Music. I think around media - movie, TV consumption, direct to consumer - [that bucket] is right in the middle of transformation. I think at the end of two to three years we are going to see less than a handful of players at scale. Other players will also have success, so scale is not the essential thing. It’s not that you’re either one of two or three players and if you’re half that, you will [not] also have a viable profitable successful business. It’s not a zero sum [game] where you either win or you lose. There will be players at different tiers.
So, you look today and say Netflix, Disney+, Amazon right now are going to attain that [success at scale]. And then you have others who it’s too early to tell how they [will] fit in. But let’s be clear, HBO is the single most profitable traditional media platform on planet earth. Makes more money than all of them. Right now today they make $2 billion a year of profit, and they continue to make phenomenal content and put it out. What is HBO Max and how is that all [going to work out]? Too early to tell, but a lot of resources there. Comcast also has a phenomenal amount of content and entertainment and media assets, and they are very, very, very smart. Underestimate them at your peril is what I would say.

        Well, Comcast just had good earnings.
      
JK: They always do. 

        It’s the broadband. They’re losing content, but they’re driving more broadband.
      
JK: Again, Brian [Roberts] and Steve [Burke] (of Comcast) are formidable. Underestimate them at your peril would be my [advice], so you have them somewhere in there. Do you think Showtime goes away? I don’t think so. Do I think Starz goes away? I don’t think so. Everybody isn’t going to play in the same world. But that’s the world of certain traditional media, direct to consumer. The third [entertainment consumption habit], which is the nascent one, is where you’re sitting right here today, Quibi. So, I don’t think that anyone has imagined that however many subscriptions people have around their television consumption - however many of these two, three, four, five of them - no one today is thinking, well if you [have] them, you’re not going to subscribe to Apple Music or to Spotify. Completely different use cases. They’re not competitive. Quibi is going to become the third, because what we’re in play for has nothing to do with that. 
What we’re in play for is the existing world today of YouTube, Facebook Watch, Instagram, TikTok, video that is actually being consumed on the phone, on the go today, which is actually bigger than all the other stuff. All the others combined. It has already attained scale that is 2 billion monthly active users on YouTube. That’s more than all the others added together, right? They are in an ad-supported free world, so some small percentage of that universe of several billion people I think are going to migrate to super premium, high quality, Hollywood level production and storytelling on this [mobile] device, on the go, and I think that will be the third use case. And by the way, I don’t think we take share from those [others]. I think we continue to accelerate what is already meaningfully growing. 

        V. KATZENBERG: ON THE MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS TEN YEARS FROM NOW
      

        I do some reading of Ray Kurzweil, and ten years out, and brain-computer interfaces and things like that, and how we’ve experienced the evolution of the screen for the last thirty years - but the basic interaction with the screen has not fundamentally changed during that period of time. Kurzweil and others talk about he concept of brain-computer interfaces where we each essentially become directly connected to the Cloud. What do you feel about that? What are your general thoughts about how realistic that is, whether that’s going to happen, and whether that’s a good or bad thing? 
      
JK: I would say to you, I think about it. Not a ton, because I still think it’s over the horizon and around the corner. But you’re sitting across somebody who has spent most of his lifetime looking over the horizon around the corner. I believe that what Quibi is actually doing now, borrowing from one of the great scoring athletes of our time Wayne Gretzky, [is that] we’re skating to where the hockey puck is going, not where it is. And when you look at how this will continue to evolve, those [future interfaces] are things that are coming. I think that they’re a ways off, just like AR (augmented reality) and VR (virtual reality) have still not realized anywhere in the world of what they can and will be.
I think we have a better chance of engaging in that [way] in an interactive device than on this [points to his iPhone] which is not interactive. That’s opportunity 2.0 for Quibi, which is how to actually now take advantage of the uniqueness, the interactivity of this [mobile] device. But where I thought you were going to go is [that] 14 years ago Steve Jobs invented this and designed this [points to his iPhone again]. He’s the greatest industrial designer of our lifetime, right? But it was never a TV set. People have forgotten that when he introduced this [iPhone], it was a telephone, it was a camera, it was for texting and for text across the Internet and for still pictures, right? And it was an iPod. It was for listening to music. It was never a TV set. So for the man who has literally designed every single solitary thing for the effectiveness of his goal and for the user experience, it was never a TV set. It wasn’t until six years later that Qualcomm invented a chip that allowed for streaming video mobile. Meanwhile the form was already designed. 
Now, interestingly, nobody actually has taken premium content and said, “how do you make that great on this [iPhone]?” Still not done to this day, because you’re either watching on a little box at the top, or if you turn it on its side it’s cut off on it, right? So, that’s where Meg Whitman and a team of people around here went. We’re going to turn this [iPhone] into a really good TV set, or video I should say, because TV is the wrong word. We’re going to turn this into an optimal way to watch video. And I’m going to get the entire Hollywood community onto it now with a new set of specs [to] make stuff that can be played beautifully on this. 

        HERE’S WHAT I THINK - MY FINAL THOUGHTS
      
And THAT’s Katzenberg’s great magic trick. Just like Steve Jobs before him revolutionized and beautifully transformed the mobile hardware that had come before it, Katzenberg hopes to revolutionize and beautifully transform the mobile content of today that will ride on top of mobile platforms (and, in so doing, transform our experiences that flow from that transformed mobile content).
Although much is written about Quibi, too little attention is given to the fact that Katzenberg and crew primarily aim to entertain us during our 7 am to 7 pm working hours. These are those “in between” moments throughout our days where we have five to ten minutes here or there and we’d rather be heads down to chill out, than to engage with others. And they are absolutely right. This use case is indeed very different than where Netflix, Disney+, Apple TV+, Amazon Prime Video, HBO Max, Comcast’s Peacock and other major living room focused streaming players primarily aim to hook us - on our couches after a long day.
And Quibi, unlike those other mega streaming players, takes an entirely different approach to its storytelling to optimize for those “quick bite” Quibi moments (Quibi, by the way, takes the “Qui” from “quick” and “bi” from bites). Hollywood talent is producing full-length, high cost Hollywood stories right now for Quibi, but is doing so with a novel (as in book) inspired “chapter-driven” state of mind to keep our ADD minds in check and lure us into continuing into the next chapter. But there’s more. Quibi started with a clean slate - with no existing library of content. All Quibi content will be fresh and available nowhere else. Even if Netflix and the other streaming behemoths ultimately choose to emulate Quibi’s mobile-first approach to premium video content - because they see early signs of success - they too will need to start with a clean slate. But when they do, Quibi already will boast content depth - content depth wrapped in an entirely new, proprietary mobile-first viewing technology package developed by Quibi’s on-site, in-house engineering team. This is where Meg Whitman and Quibi’s “Hollywood Meets Silicon Valley” story enters the picture (you will learn more about Quibi’s tech-driven “special sauce” in my next Disruptors interview with Whitman).
This all makes sense strategically, of course (even more so to me after leaving the interview). But will Quibi’s economics work? It’s Katzenberg’s most challenging act to date. Yet, as he would say, bet against him at your own peril.
