
# ISL 2019-20 | Have our own idea about how it’s necessary to play, says Sergio Lobera

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:43:39+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/isl-2019-20-have-our-own-idea-about-how-its-necessary-to-play-says-sergio-lobera?utm_medium=rss)


        FC Goa coach Sergio Lobera has stated that his team has their set of ideas on how to play, ahead of their match against a strong Mumbai City FC side on Thursday. French midfielder Hugo Boumos, who was present with the match, expressed his dissatisfaction with the disappointing draw last match.
      
FC Goa will travel to Mumbai after their disappointing 2-2 draw against NorthEast United, where the high scoring side was seen getting many chances ad fluffing most of them. The Gaurs had another blow during the match in the form of Seminlen Doungel, who was shown the red card in the ending minutes. However, a last-minute header from Manvir Singh saved Goa the blushes.
However, Gaurs boss Sergio Lobera stands by his philosophy of football after two consecutive draws. “We have our own idea about how it’s necessary to play. But in the match, it is possible in different circumstances to change some players or change the situation. I don’t think about changing the system in terms of numbers.” said Lobera at the pre-match conference, ISL website reported.
Lobera also expressed his dissatisfaction with the Seminlen Doungel's suspension.  “I change the different roles the players have in the same system. Depending on the situation until now, it’s not been possible for me to have the full squad. In the next match, it’s the same situation because (Seiminlen Doungel) cannot play. I am not happy with him. I told him about the situation in the last match. It’s not good for the team. It’s not good for the player. It’s not good for football. It’s not a good example for kids who watched the match.” added Lobera.
After a dominating win against Chennaiyin FC in the opener, the Gaurs failed to win against Bengaluru FC and Northeast United. However, Lobera was satisfied with the first game and he expressed his dissatisfaction with the missed chances in the next two. 
“The analysis is different in every match. In the first match, I am very happy with the performance of the team. We won the match in very difficult circumstances. In the second match, I feel we won one point.
“In the last match, I think we lost two points because the start of that match was very good. I think the team created a lot of chances. I am not happy with the result of the last match because the game-management during the match was not good by us. And when you don’t score and concede from your own mistakes, it’s possible to draw or lose the match,” Lobera added.
Goa and Mumbai last faced in the semi-finals of the last season where Goa thrashed Mumbai City at the Mumbai Football Arena. However, Goa could not continue that winning momentum in the final against Bengaluru, who held the Gaurs in the same venue which they lost by a solitary goal of Rahul Bheke in the extra time.
“I prefer my players to remember the semi-finals. It’s a good place because I think whenever we played in this stadium, we played well. It’s true that it was not possible to win the final, but in the semi-final against (Mumbai), my team played very well. I think the past is past and it’s not possible to affect it. Every match is different. I think it will be a difficult match (against Mumbai) because we will be playing against a very good team. The past is not important for us.” Lobera concluded.
French midfielder Hugo Boumous, who scored against NorthEast United, was with the coach at the conference and expressed his dissatisfaction with the missed chances.
“It was not the most important thing for me to score a goal. The most important thing was to get the three points, Unfortunately, we couldn’t get it. I agree with Sergio. I think there were a lot of chances and we should have got three points. But sometimes, it’s not that easy.” said the 24-year-old.
