
# eBay Pre-Black Friday 2019 Deals: Beats By Dre Solo3 Solo 3 Headphones Are Half Off

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/07/ebay-pre-black-friday-2019-deals-dr-dre-solo3-solo-3-headphones-are-55-off/)

The Beats Solo3 Wireless headphones are a great on-ear option for those who want excellent sound quality and Beats’ renowned design. Beats By Dre are well known for combining style, function and performance. They're the middle ground between daily wear consumer audio and high-end professional gear. Professional headphones can cost thousands of dollars, however — not exactly the kind of thing you want to take skateboarding. And now, they’re available for an incredible $149.95. That’s almost 50 percent off.Sure, the headphones have been replaced by the newer Beats Solo Pro headphones in recent years, but that doesn’t mean the Solo3 Wireless headphones any less awesome. All it does mean is that the older headphones are getting amazing discounts.
Beats By Dre headphones also work as a fashion accessory. In recent years, fashion designers have been moving into the audio market, like these crystal-encrusted headphones from Dolce & Gabanna's 2015 runway show. Fashion headphones can be even more expensive if you can believe it. Considering that Beats By Dre headphones count as both, it's no wonder they're not exactly cheap.
eBay's been rolling out some pretty impressive pre-Black Friday deals this week, offering up some truly exceptional deals on all kinds of audio gear. This pre-Black Friday deal on headphones made us sit up and take notice, however. Beats By Dre Solo 3 Wireless Headphones for $149.95??? Is that a typo?
It's not a typo.
If you've been waiting for a chance to check out the awesomely tuned frequency response that Beats By Dre headphones are known for, here's your chance.
The headphones are highly comfortable. Just be warned, any other pair of headphones may be a headache in comparison. You'll barely realize the Solo3's are there, weighing in at a featherweight 7.58 oz. When not in use, the Solo3's fold up into a compact and easily portable package. If you've been looking for ultra-portable Bluetooth headphones that still sound good, Beats By Dre Solo3's could be for you.
You won't ever want to take off the Solo3's. The good news is, you'll rarely have to. They feature an impressive 40-hour battery life, so you won't even have to take them off to take a call. These headphones feature the same hands-free call functions as the rest of the Beats By Dre line. When you're running low, you won't have to wait long either; the Solo3's feature Fast Fuel charging, which can yield up to three hours of playback in as little as three minutes.
The Beats By Dre Solo3's main claim to fame is the introduction of the W1 chip. The W1 Chip is designed specifically to function seamlessly with iOS and Apple Products — making these headphones even better for Apple fans. Bluetooth audio has already come a long way in offering consistent, even playback, but the W1 chip takes things to a whole new level. If you're tired of static audio during your workouts or phone calls, the W1 is about to make all of your hi-fi dreams come true.
It's nearly unheard of to see these popular wireless headphones on sale at all, let alone around half of their list price. They're going for $149.95 on eBay while they're listed at the full $299 on Best Buy and Amazon, so you best snatch these up while they're around!

        
          Shop Now
        
      
