
# T-Mobile’s 5G network is launching on December 6 for 200 million people

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:21:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/t-mobiles-5g-network-launching-december-6-200-million-people?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
On November 7, T-Mobile held its first Un-Carrier event since the FCC approved its merger with Sprint. As expected, T-Mobile used much of its latest Un-Carrier initiative to talk about its 5G plans.
Just about a month from now on December 6, T-Mobile will flip its 5G network live for millions of people across the United States. T-Mobile's using a combination of its low-band frequencies and Sprint's mid-band frequencies, and as a result of this, the New T-Mobile will be able to offer 5G for 200 million people around the country right off the bat on December 6.
T-Mobile is promoting data speeds of 450Mbps by 2024, which the carrier is touting as being 10x faster than its traditional LTE network. T-Mobile's also stressing just how many people it'll be able to cover with these increased speeds — touting that 90% of Americans will get access to them.
The Samsung Galaxy Note 10+ and OnePlus 7T Pro 5G will be the initial 5G devices that T-Mobile offers for its 5G network, with more likely being added as more and more phone makers integrate 5G support into their devices.
T-Mobile's also pushing that it'll offer a 5G coverage map so customers can see exactly where 5G connectivity is offered, compared to carriers like AT&T and Verizon that have scattered access in certain cities and specific parts of sports arenas.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Great picks The Galaxy S10+ is the best T-Mobile phone for most people Wondering about the best phones T-Mobile offers? We've got you covered.
      
