
# A 4-Day Work Week Increased Productivity, According To Microsoft Japan

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:43:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/a-4-day-work-week-increased-productivity-according-to-microsoft-japan-19298513)

Everyone looks forward to the weekend, but how would you feel if that weekend was a day longer? Well, this past summer, workers at the Microsoft Japan office got to know just what it felt like thanks to the "Work Life Choice Challenge," which shut down offices during all the Fridays in August. During the 4-day work weeks, Microsoft Japan showed increased productivity, which could tell us something significant about work-life balance.
Microsoft Japan detailed the results of its Work Life Choice Challenge in a company press release that soon grabbed international attention. The "challenge" began as a project meant to come up with innovative work style tactics, according to the press release. Along with the 4-day work weeks, this included allowing full-time employees special paid leave and assisting in expenses related to self-development (including family travel). The initiative also focused on reducing the amount of time employees spent in meetings or checking email, using Microsoft's own collaboration tool, Microsoft Team, to communicate instead. But instead of a day less of work cutting productivity, it did the opposite —employees increased their sales by 40%. And that's not the only positive outcome of the challenge in August.
