
# Home Bargains selling £3 Christmas Eve boxes containing loads of gifts for kids

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:51:20+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/home-bargains-selling-3-christmas-20815685)

Christmas Eve boxes are a great way to get little ones in the mood for the big day, but with so many presents on Christmas Day, it's best not to spend a fortune for the night before.
So it's no surprise that parents are going mad for Home Bargain's Christmas Eve boxes, which are packed with festive treats for little ones, and cost just £2.99.
After spotting the boxes in Home Bargains, one mum shared photos of her find on Facebook , with the post having since amassed over 4,000 likes and almost 2,000 comments.
Talking about what's inside the box, she also added, it "contains Christmas story book, letter from Santa, door hook, stickers and cookies! Think it's a fab price".
Originally shared on Facebook page Extreme Bargaining and Coupons UK, it was then picked up by The Sun.
However, the popularity of the box has caused some shoppers to stress that there may not be any left for them, commenting "We need a trip to Home Bargains but quickly, before the other 1.8k people get there", with another parent saying they would be "getting them all".
Elsewhere online you can expect to pay a lot more for a similar item, with Amazon selling beautiful pre-filled handmade wooden versions - albeit for £28.99.
However, you could certainly use them again and again next year, with the box coming complete with a pillow case, DVD, Hot chocolate, sweets and games.
You can also personalise the box so that the label it comes with has your little ones name on.
Meanwhile at John Lewis, a box alone costs £22, coming with nothing inside, and looking very similar to Home Bargain's version.
