
# Kiwis hold on for dramatic victory against Great Britain

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:09:53+00:00**

Author: **John Davidson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/02/kiwis-hold-on-for-dramatic-victory-against-great-britain)

Great Britain’s tour to the ­southern hemisphere has gone from bad to worse, as they lost a scrappy encounter here in Auckland for their second defeat in a row.
After a 14-6 loss to Tonga last Saturday the Lions promised to roar, but it was another inconsistent effort, this time as part of a historic rugby league triple-header at the home of the All Blacks, another display largely devoid of spark and bite.
Great Britain’s attack failed to fire and despite a late comeback, which almost led to Jermaine McGillvary ­levelling the scores in the corner late on, they could not reel in the Kiwis.
Despite back-to-back defeats, Wayne Bennett insisted his team are improving. “Last week we didn’t make any opportunities to score tries,” he said. “Today we had opportunities to score tries, so that’s the difference. We’re on the up, we’re not going backwards. We played a quality team.
“The first half was a pretty ­dismal game. Completions were high but there was just nothing happening. But they got that right in the second half, got a lot more ball movement, played quite good football and gave ourselves a chance.”
The Lions problems have worsened with Ryan Hall expected to miss next Saturday’s re-match after dislocating his knee. With no other ­specialist wingers in the squad, Bennett’s ­cupboard is bare.
The New Zealand coach, Michael Maguire, was pleased with how his team ground out the victory. “I’m really proud of the players, but also know we have a bit to do for next week,” he said.
“The boys really fought extremely hard for each other and it’s a value I’ve seen in this group.”
It was a cagey opening spell with the sides keen to complete their sets and win the yardage battle , but five minutes in New Zealand lost Kieran Foran with a dislocated shoulder.
The Kiwis took a 2-0 lead two ­minutes later through a penalty goal from Jamayne Isaako. In the 16th minute the Lions tied it up thanks to the boot of Gareth Widdop.
Both teams continued their conservative play and the breakthrough never came in the first half, with a ­promising line break from Joseph Manu unable to be finished as the whistle blew.
In the second half the match continued in the same vein with defence ruling the day and creativity lacking until a piece of magic from Roger Tuivasa-Sheck in the 48th minute. The full-back beat two ­defenders, sped away and then managed to draw two more tackles while somehow managing to freakishly flick the ball away to Isaako for the try.
Three minutes later the Lions were saved by the video referee. Benji Marshall’s grubber kick pinballed around and Briton Nikora managed to hack through the ball to score, but the try was chalked out because of a knock-on from him in the build-up.
New Zealand’s lead was extended soon after thanks to Corey Harawira-Naera, the back-rower forcing his way over the line despite four tacklers.
With Isaako adding the extras to make it 12-2 the Lions were in a hole. Tensions boiled over in the 59th minute after Joe Tapine caught James Graham late. Graham reacted and both teams ran in to trade punches. Tapine was surprisingly not sent to the sin-bin and a minute later another full-team melee erupted.
Great Britain managed to regain their composure and only a high tackle stopped McGillvary from crashing over in the corner. In the next set Daryl Clark touched down after he regathered Alex Walmsley’s offload close to the line.
After Widdop’s conversion the Lions were back in it at 12-8 with 12 minutes left. The Kiwis were on the back foot and in the 76th minute McGillvary dived over in the corner but Kenny Bromwich hit him with a try-saving tackle and the winger lost control of the ball.
Great Britain were sunk and the Kiwis held on for a dramatic victory.
