
# Mum's fury as Deliveroo charges her for KFC birthday feast but fails to deliver

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:59:42+00:00**

Author: **Ben Weich**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mums-fury-deliveroo-charges-kfc-20801413)

A mum has blasted Deliveroo after the firm failed to deliver a KFC meal meant as a birthday surprise for her daughter - but still charged her for it.
Dawn Bayley, 38, complained to Stoke-on-Trent Live that a mix-up when entering her address on the Deliveroo website left her hungry and £28.29 out of pocket.
She had intended to treat birthday girl Erica, 11, to a fried chicken feast , along with her sisters Tinisha-Jade, 12, two-year-old Alysia-Rose and their grandmother, Angela, 61.
It was the first time Dawn, from Bucknall, near Stoke, had used Deliveroo.
Having inadvertently entered both her current and former address, an unfortunate delivery driver was sent to the latter.
A confused delivery driver angrily rebuked Dawn over the phone, telling her he could not deliver the meal to her current address - but that she would still be charged the full bill.
She said: "I was going into hospital the next day, which was Erica’s birthday, so we decided to have her treat the night before and she wanted KFC.
“I put this address in but my phone is linked to my old address... so it somehow changed to that one, but left both house numbers.
“The delivery driver rang me because he had gone to [Dawn's previous address]. I realised what had happened and explained to him I was really sorry. I asked if he could still deliver it – I offered to pay extra for his fuel and said if it was cold it would be my fault, but he said he couldn’t and I wouldn’t be getting my payment back.
"I don’t understand why no one called to check the address when there were two house numbers on the order – there was obviously some mistake.
“I was really angry. The only reason for getting a takeaway was for my daughter’s birthday. I eventually ended up going on Just Eat and ordering pizza, and spending another £20.”
 
Dawn added that a friend, who contacted Deliveroo on her behalf, was told she would indeed receive a refund.
But the mother-of-six claimed that she had not been reimbursed until the company had been contacted by reporters.
She has vowed never to use the food delivery service again.
She said: “I was fuming. It’s daylight robbery. It was my technical error so if it turned up late and cold I didn’t mind that, but I should still get the food.
“I usually use Just Eat or Foodhub and I’ve never had this problem with them. It was the first time and the last time I will use Deliveroo.”
Dawn's mother, Angela added: "I think it's shocking, paying for something and then being told you can't have it. I won't use them again."
A spokesman for Deliveroo said the incident had been investigated, and that Dawn has now been issued with a refund.
He said: “The query for this customer has now been answered and a full refund has been applied back to her card.”
