
# Jets without CB Trumaine Johnson, C Ryan Kalil vs. Dolphins

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **DENNIS WASZAK Jr.**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/jets-without-cb-trumaine-johnson-c-ryan-kalil-vs-d/)

FLORHAM PARK, N.J. (AP) - The New York Jets are heading to Miami with two more starters sidelined.
Cornerback Trumaine Johnson and center Ryan Kalil have been ruled out for Sunday’s game against the winless Dolphins because of injuries.
Johnson is dealing with injuries to both of his ankles. Nate Hairston likely will start in his place.
Kalil has neck and elbow ailments and will miss his first regular-season game since coming out of retirement in August and joining the Jets. Jonotthan Harrison will be at center at Miami.
Linebacker C.J. Mosley (groin) had been previously ruled out. He is expected to miss at least four or five more weeks before the team decides on the next course of action.
The Jets are incredibly thin at inside linebacker with Mosley out. Avery Williamson suffered a season-ending knee injury in the preseason.
Backup-turned-starter Neville Hewitt is doubtful and likely to miss his third straight game with knee and neck injuries. The Jets also placed rookie Blake Cashman, who had started five of the last six games, on injured reserve with a torn labrum in a shoulder suffered in practice Wednesday.
With backup Albert McClellan also on IR with a concussion, the likely options at inside linebacker are James Burgess, called up from the practice squad last week; B.J. Bello, signed earlier this week; and Brandon Copeland, normally an outside linebacker.
“It’ll be the next man up, but I’m not going to tell you or Miami,” defensive coordinator Gregg Williams said. “So, just show up for the game on Sunday and see who it is.”
Wide receiver Josh Bellamy (foot/shoulder) and safety Rontez Miles (neck/hip) also won’t play.
Left tackle Kelvin Beachum (ankle), nose tackle Steve McLendon (hamstring), tight end Chris Herndon (hamstring) and wide receivers Demaryius Thomas (hamstring/ankle) and Braxton Berrios (hamstring) are all questionable.
The Jets made a few other roster moves Friday, including activating defensive lineman Nathan Shepherd, who returns from a six-game suspension. They also placed running back/kick returner Trenton Cannon on IR, signed outside linebacker Frankie Luvu from the practice squad and signed linebacker Jamey Mosley, C.J.’s younger brother, to the practice squad.
Shepherd was banned by the NFL after he violated the league’s policy on performance-enhancing drugs. A third-round pick last year out of Fort Hays State, Shepherd could see some playing opportunities open with Leonard Williams traded to the Giants earlier this week.
“It feels good to be back,” Shepherd said. “When Coach calls my number, I’ll be in.”
More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
