
# Jewelry Inspired By The Ocean, Get To Know Merewif

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Felicity Carter**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/felicitycarter/2019/11/02/jewelry-inspired-by-the-ocean-get-to-know-merewif/)

Savannah Watson is the founder of oh-so-wearable and super sweet jewelry brand, Merewif and we can’t get enough. It’s magical.
Watson grew up in a beach town, and following her love for design, she found herself in the cities of New York and Los Angeles, which offered more opportunities for a designer. Here, she designed footwear for several years but needing a break from city life and with a house move, she decided to explore a craft. A craft that she could produce on her own, and on her own terms, and jewelry turned out to be the one for her. As a result Merewif was formed in 2012.
“Merewif” meaning sea witch in Old English is an ode to Savannah’s lifelong admiration of the ocean. Watson cites nature’s texture and movement as an inspiration, and this is evident through her line which consists of yellow gold chain necklaces (she does this classic piece very well) and flowing earrings, as well as signet rings, studs and band rings adorned with diamonds and semi-precious stones (who doesn’t love moonstone, malachite and onyx?!)

        Felicity Carter: How, when, why did you get into the industry?
      
For as long as my memory takes me, I have been energized by creating. My grandmother would sew dresses for me and let me pick the pattern and fabric when I was young, so I think that was the gateway into self-expression through fashion.
I got into sewing in high school but was overwhelmed by the idea of designing clothing. It wasn’t something that interested me at the time, however, when I found out there was a program dedicated specifically to designing accessories at F.I.T. in New York, I was intrigued and determined to follow that path.
I studied footwear and handbag design while I was there and spent some years designing shoes in NYC and LA once I graduated. Ultimately, I felt the need for a more tactile design process with less creative constraints and found myself back in my hometown on the coast of North Carolina (where there happen to be no jobs in my field). Alas, I took a few jewelry making classes and watched a lot of YouTube videos and was able to start a little business out of my mom’s garage in 2012.

        FC: How would you sum up the aesthetic?
      
Merewif is an Old English word for sea witch, so nature is at the root of it all. Every piece has meaning and is intended to evoke some kind of emotion - a subtle grin, a little tear, or nostalgia for a bygone era. There’s enough room in the design for individual interpretation.

        FC: Who is your customer?
      
My customer is someone who believes in the power of a talisman and wants to feel connected to what they’re wearing.

        FC: Which was the first-ever piece that you designed and how did it come about?
      
In the beginning, I made a lot of jewelry from brass findings, but the first piece I feel like I really designed was in 2013. After I took a class on lost wax casting, I had a starfish cast and loved the natural texture transformed into metal. This resulted in a style that is still in the collection, the Estrella earrings.

        FC: Tell us about the process and materiality…
      
I like to utilize all the ways I have learned to make jewelry when creating new styles. For some pieces, I hand fabricate the sample myself: cutting, filing, and soldering metal to create a finished piece of jewelry (the Margot earrings) or hand carving and forming wax to be cast in metal (the Droplette ring). For pieces with small stones and/or intricate detail (the Like Meteors ring), I use photoshop to create a very detailed rendering that I send to be made in CAD and printed in wax before being cast into metal. I am still learning all the time, but I love how many avenues there are to create jewelry.

        FC: Currently which is your favorite piece and how do you wear it/them?
      
My current favorite is the Clyde chain. It makes a subtle statement, and I love the way it forms to the body and catches the light.

        FC: What are your immediate and long term goals for your company?
      
My immediate goal is to make it through the holidays and keep our customers happy. We have a young baby who I’m trying to spend as much time with as possible while maintaining our growing business. I think we can do it!
Long term, I want to continue to run a brand that focuses on integrity and ethics. We are constantly looking for ways to be more sustainable and I am really excited about our new $5 repair program that was inspired by Patagonia’s model of repairing instead of replacing. We also donate 5% of all www.merewif.com sales to non-profits like the ACLU and Planned Parenthood.
I don’t have any become a billionaire, take over the world plans, I just hope to be able to continue making a living working hard on something that I love. I feel really lucky.
Shop the jewelry at their website.
