
# Harry Maguire slams Man Utd's quality in final third after defeat by Bournemouth

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:32:49+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/harry-maguire-points-finger-man-20797620)

Harry Maguire has hit out at Manchester United's performance in the 1-0 defeat by Bournemouth, saying his team-mates lacked quality in the final third.
The Red Devils were beaten for a fourth time in the Premier League this season, with Joshua King netting the only goal of the game at the Vitality Stadium.
United squandered chances to get back in the match as Ole Gunnar Solskjaer made two attacking substitutions in the second half, bringing on Mason Greenwood and Jesse Lingard.
And £80million summer signing Maguire has called on his team-mates to improve.
He told MUTV: "[We are] disappointed. We conceded at an awful time at a stage where we started the game really well.
"The first 20 minutes we were well on top, we have got to score in that period, with numerous chances.
"The quality in the final third wasn't good enough to create a real clear cut chance, then they came into the game at the end of the first-half and it is an awful time to concede just before half-time, it is probably the worst."
Solskjaer added: "Mason Greenwood was unlucky when he hit the post, I saw him scoring those chances more than missing them, but he will come good.
"I thought Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial defended very well against them, but in games like this one it is so important get the first goal and they did it."
