
# Facebook urges Australians to report fake ads as it launches tool to target scammers

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:33:50+00:00**

Author: **Australian Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/nov/07/facebook-urges-australians-to-report-fake-ads-as-it-launches-tool-to-target-scammers)


        Fake celebrity endorsements are used to promote free product trials that are nearly impossible to cancel
      
Australians are now able to report fake ads they see on Facebook after scammers used unauthorised images of celebrities including Karl Stefanovic, Nicole Kidman and Eddie McGuire.
The fake Australian celebrity endorsements were used to promote free product trials that were nearly impossible to cancel, or investment schemes.
“We continue to train our team to better recognise these ads, but feedback from people is critical,” Facebook’s director of product management, Rob Leathern, said on Thursday.
“When users report an ad, that helps us improve our automated detection of some of their changing tactics.”
Leathern said Facebook was trying to use facial recognition technology to help detect public figures in fake ads, but he said there are challenges in doing so.
He claimed the company had removed more than 2.2bn fake accounts worldwide and continued to build protection tools to prevent disruptions in the user’s experience.
The reporting tool lands in Australia after being tested in the UK, where the TV presenter Martin Lewis dropped a lawsuit against Facebook after reaching an agreement that it take action on fake ads.
Facebook has partnered with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to fight the scams, and is looking to extend the reporting tool to more countries soon.
“We want to raise awareness and have people’s feedback on any ad that might have escaped our reinforced automated tools to prevent this,” Leathern said.
“Scams are an ever complicated issue and we’re trying to do everything possible to combat it.”
According to data from ACCC’s Scamwatch, Australians have lost more than $100m on different types of scams in 2019.
More than $18m came from scams originating on social networks, with more than 6,000 reports registered.
Facebook has come under fire recently after it announced it would not fact check political adverts and would not ban ads from political candidates for making false claims.
A Facebook spokesman said: “We don’t believe that it’s an appropriate role for us to referee political debates. Nor do we think it would be appropriate to prevent a politician’s speech from reaching its audience and being subject to public debate and scrutiny.”
