
# Tyson Fury sends threat to Brock Lesnar as he eyes WWE Wrestlemania showdown

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:10:21+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/tyson-fury-sends-threat-brock-20835210)

Tyson Fury has threatened to hit Brock Lesnar so hard he will "wake up in Tokyo" as he called out the superstar for a Wrestlemania showdown.
Lineal heavyweight boxing champion Fury knocked out Braun Strowman on his first in-ring WWE appearance at the Crown Jewel pay-per-view last week.
But it appears it will not be his only WWE appearance, with the Gypsy King already confirmed to appear on Friday Night Smackdown in hometown Manchester this week.
Lesnar has not made the trip as part of WWE's European tour having initially been tipped to be Fury's first opponent.
But the giant boxer has not given up hopes of taking on the ex-UFC star as he revealed his desire to knock him out at Wrestlemania 36.
Speaking on Corey Graves' After the Bell podcast, Fury said: “Hopefully you see me in the ring again.
“I want to fight Brock Lesnar next.
"One clip from the Gypsy King and he’ll wake up in Tokyo.”
He declared his desire to make the fight happen on the biggest stage at Wrestlemania.
Fury could also follow in Lesnar's footsteps by appearing in both WWE and UFC.
 
The Gypsy King has declared his desire to take over combat sports and teased an MMA switch, training with British star Darren Till as he eyes a transition.
In a clip posted on Instagram on Thursday, Fury said: "Good news everybody, I'm going to go training with Darren Till this weekend.
"We're going to smash it and he's going to get me started on my MMA career. Get in there my boy."
But he is due for a huge rematch with Deontay Wilder in February 2020, with his heavyweight rival claiming he is running scared of a second clash.
An angry Fury responded by saying: "The thing is with you Wilder, crack on with your own business and I'll see you February 22 to finish what I started. This time you're going to get smashed you big bum dosser."
