
# Liam Payne strips totally naked and simulates sex act with Stella Maxwell for Hugo

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:06:42+00:00**

Author: **Emmeline Saunders**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/liam-payne-strips-totally-naked-20806802)

Liam Payne has got completely naked for his latest modelling campaign with Hugo in order to simulate a naughty sex act with Stella Maxwell.
The former One Direction singer stripped totally bare for the revealing photoshoot, shot in a rumpled bed as Victoria’s Secret model Stella straddles his naked body.
In the nude black and white shoot, 26-year-old Liam gazes seductively at the camera while propping up his head on one bulgingly muscled arm.
With his gym-honed thighs falling apart, Stella - wearing nothing but a pair of tight white Hugo boxers - straddles the length of his torso with her topless body.
In a second shot, Liam's bulge is centre stage as he once again smizes into the lens while a naked Stella drapes herself on the bed behind him.
Liam recently admitted the modelling shoot got slightly out of hand as he and Stella downed tequila shots before getting down to their raunchy business.
"There was a lot of tequila involved for this shoot," he confessed to GQ Hype.
"It just ended up being a lot more naked than I thought it was – and for [Stella] as well. She was also naked. And I was just, you know, 'Don't look!' She was naked behind me and I was thinking, 'Liam, don't look whatever you do.'"
He admitted the shoot quickly turned into "soft-core porn", adding that his own mum gave him "a clip round the ear" when she heard about the saucy details.
Liam's bare-faced cheek us unlikely to go down well with his new girlfriend Maya Henry - nor with his ex, Cheryl, who he slated over the weekend in a chat with MTV.
Opening up about his new romance with Maya, Liam couldn't help but compare it with his relationship with the mother of his son, Bear.
"I'm really happy right now and things are good. Now that I've found someone who's my best friend as well as my partner. It's massively changed things for me," he said.
"She's just so relaxed about everything. Someone who's completely got your back with everything is just the wildest thing.
"I don't think I've really experienced that before in someone, so it's quite a wonder to watch."
Ouch.
