
# The Steven Gerrard Rangers pursuit of perfection that ruled out Peter Crouch Ibrox move

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:46:07+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Young, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/graeme-young/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steven-gerrard-rangers-pursuit-perfection-20786872)

Honest Peter Crouch admits a short spell with Rangers before retirement was a total non-starter due to Steven Gerrard 's non-stop quest for perfection.
The well-travelled striker called time on his career earlier this year and he had been linked with a reunion with his former Liverpool skipper in Glasgow.
Rumours intensified when Crouch visited Glasgow in the summer but it was revealed the lanky forward was just in town to grill his close friend for his new chat show rather than searching for a deal.
Former Portsmouth strike pal Jermain Defoe is thriving at Ibrox and has netted 12 times in 14 appearances so far this season.
And Crouch concedes he missed his chance to sample the Premiership and feature in a Rangers vs Celtic clash well before Gerrard's arrival.
He told the Daily Mail: "I would have liked to have come up here, definitely, play in an Old Firm game, I would have loved to have been a part of that.
"It just didn't materialise. 'I didn't want to come up here half-hearted, it wouldn't be allowed, certainly by him (Gerrard) for one, and I was ready to finish. I wanted to finish in the Premier League.
"In my early 30s I would have liked to come here and given it a go and done it properly, but it wasn't to be.
"He was just a born leader, the best captain I have played under by far."
Crouch adored Gerrard the player and is convinced the 39-year-old is developing into a manager to be reckoned with.
And while the former Tottenham star isn't tuning in every week to the game north of the border, he believes no argument can be made when it comes to the on-field improvements.
A first trophy remains the target but Gerrard has his side neck and neck with Celtic in the Premiership and motoring in the Europa League.
Crouch added: "If he is anything like that as a manager, the standards are high, he's going to improve the football club. He's been there 18 months nearly now and you can see the improvements.
"I can't say I watch Scottish football every week, but Rangers look very good.
"He's a Liverpool legend. If he bring Rangers their first trophy since all the problems off the pitch, he will be a Rangers legend, too.
"Whether it's this year or the next, he (Gerrard) has made it a possibility. It's a tough one. The games between the two of them are so important but it would be amazing to see him do it.
"The gap is a lot closer than it has been, so whether they win this year I don't know, but he's doing good work and if he keeps improving, there's no limit to what they can achieve.
"The gap has been closed so much, they're pretty level now, and if they can keep it going it would be amazing to see him do it and win a title."
Crouch admits while he loved playing alongside his close friend he insists Gerrard could also put the frighteners on Kop stars who were unerpeforming.
And the towering striker reckons the Rangers dressing room will know all about their manager's unwavering demands.
He said: "I saw it as a player when he gave the hairdryer treatment.
"I'm sure he's doing it as a manager. If you weren't pulling your weight, you'd be told in no uncertain terms. I'm 100-per-cent sure he's the same as a manager."
