
# Ditch the wires with these Pixel 4 charging pads

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/best-wireless-charging-pads-pixel-4?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

Best Wireless Charging Pads for Pixel 4 Android Central 2019
Wireless charging on Pixel phones has only been around for a year now, and after being hobbled on the Pixel 3, Google has answered our prays and made the Pixel 4 more widely compatible with fast Qi charging by supporting 10W charging on far more chargers through the Extended Power Profile. Whether you prefer vertical stands that you can use with Motion Sense's swift face unlocking and flat pads, there's ample options now for the Pixel 4.
Staff pick
This charger is a little more expensive than the PowerWave Stand, but it supports 15W wireless charging, which is higher than the 11W max the Pixel 4 can take but means that it should charge your Pixel 4 and whatever phone comes after it at full speed.

        $42 at Amazon
      
This 15W stand is more condusive to sitting next to your laptop at your desk or keeping your phone propped up in the kitchen while you're working on that new recipe, and the built-in fan should help keep things cool while your Pixel 4 charges.

        $25 at Amazon
      
This was the only charger for the Pixel 3 that would charge at top speed, but the Pixel 4 isn't limited anymore. If you want the Google look, though, the Pixel Stand is designed for the Pixel line, looks quite clean in white, and has a special slideshow mode when docked.

        $80 at Amazon
      
Choetech's got a couple of wireless pads that should charge the Pixel 4 at top speed, but this model is the best-looking of the bunch, as well as being one of the thinner Qi pads around if you like to bring your Qi pad on trips. It also comes with an AC adapter.

        $30 at Amazon
      
This bundle features a 10W pad and a 10W stand, allowing you to jumpstart your Qi charger collection without breaking the bank. Just keep in mind to reach top speed these pads need to be powered by a QC3.0 wall adapter.

        $27 at Amazon
      
When it's at home, this phone-sized charging pad works just like any other, but when you unplug it, it turns into a 10,000mAh power bank that you can use to charge your Pixel 4 wirelessly at 5W or with a standard USB-C cable at 15W. It's two wireless chargers in one, and really, does it get much better than that?

        $37 at Amazon
      
FINALLY! We can use more regular Qi chargers for fast charging the Pixel 4! This is awesome for so many reasons but most especially because that means we can save some money buying chargers that aren't 80 bucks like the Pixel Stand! The Anker PowerWave 15 is compact, affordable while still supporting the EPP profile that the Pixel 4 requires, and Anker is a name we trust to the moon and back. You'll want to make sure you're using a 24W Qualcomm QuickCharge 2.0 or 3.0 wall charger with the PowerWave 15 to get the higher charging profiles.
If you're looking for a stand but don't feel like paying big bucks for Google's version, Yootech's 15W stand is a great alternative that hould be able to fast-charger just about every phone your throw at it, and the built-in fan should keep things from overheating when you're charging for longer periods. I like stands for the living room and the office were I can perch my phone next to my laptop or my drink coaster, whereas flat pads are great for the bedroom where they'll keep the screen from shining into your face if your get a notification in the middle of the night.
As a note: the Pixel 4 supports EPP, but finding EPP Qi chargers can still be somewhat few and far between at the moment, hence the appearance of some 5W chargers in this roundup. I'd rather steer you towards higher-quality lower-speed chargers than no-name chargers that I don't have confidence in, but expect to see more chargers added as we can verify that they work with the Pixel 4.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        No matter your taste, your phone needs a case Protect your Pixel 4 with these great cases! The Google Pixel 4 is an amazing phone sandwiched between a glass front and glass back. As pretty as that glass back is, you should cover it with a case to keep it pretty as long as possible.
      

        XLlent cases for an XL phone Your Google Pixel 4 XL deserves only the best cases Google's newest flagship is a big glass slab of innovation and power, but it's not going to mean much if you drop it and shatter the screen. Protect your investment with a Pixel 4 XL case.
      

        buyers guide These are the best heavy duty cases for the Pixel 4 Don't let your brand new Pixel 4 get banged up by a nasty drop. Keep it safe from day one on with a heavy duty case.
      
