
# Chicago Libraries’ Late Fee Elimination Sparks A 240% Boost In Book Returns

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Rowe**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamrowe1/2019/11/03/chicago-libraries-late-fee-elimination-sparks-a-240-boost-in-book-returns/)

The Chicago Public Library system has recently gotten rid of its late fees. The number of book returns has since increased 240%, a library official says. It’s a big piece of evidence countering a major argument used by those arguing against ditching overdue fines for library books. “The amount of books returned has increased by 240%. A huge increase in the number of books coming back,” Library Commisioner Andrea Telli said while testifying at City Council budget hearings, the Chicago Sun-Times reports. “We’re very, very happy to have that. … Those books have a value and cost money to buy. We want those assets back. We also want the patron to come back.”
While Chicago is the largest major city in the US to reduce or entirely eliminate fines for overdue titles, it’s far from the only one, with late-fee-less library systems in other major cities including the Salt Lake City Public Library and, most recently, the Boston Public Library, which changed its late fee policy this past Friday.
Ditching late fees is not an entirely new trend for US libraries, even if it appears to be picking up speed recently. Sno-Isle Libraries in Washington State has not charged late fees for more than 35 years, as I mentioned in an article last week. And on occasion, libraries that don’t charge late fees can choose to begin charging them, as the Seattle Public Library did, when it cut overdue fines for children’s books in 1990 only to bring them back in 2009. According to a 2017 study, about 92% of US libraries continue to charge late fees.
Naysayers have argued that eliminating late fees will simply cause library patrons to horde books for longer periods of time. However, the facts don’t appear to back up this theory. The Chicago Public Library system’s 240% jump in book returns may even out in upcoming months, since the new policy change is likely what spurred library goers to take advantage of their newly bestowed late fee amnesty, but similar cases across the nation have indicated that there is no increase in overdue books when it comes to getting rid of late fees.
“Just by word of mouth and also on the library’s social media pages like Facebook, we saw a lot of patrons say, ‘Oh my God. This is so great. I’m gonna bring back my books. I’ve been hesitant to come back to the library because I owe these fines,’” Telli explained.
