
# Daniel Sloss tells us about his favourite movies

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:16:18+00:00**

Author: **Даша Постнова**

Original: [CINEMAHOLICS](https://cinemaholics.ru/sight-and-sound-daniel-sloss-eng/)

In our regular Sight & Sound section cool people tell us about the most important movies in their lives. This time we sat down with comedian Daniel Sloss, who is performing in Moscow on November 23. Read further if you want to find out the funniest movie he's ever seen, why he hates scary movies (spoiler: because they're scary) and a couple of movies he just can't stand.

        Фото / PR
      
Интервью на русском языке здесь.

        The first movie you remember watching
      

        James and the Giant Peach
      

        The Walt Disney Company
      

        The movie that "ruined" your childhood
      
Mission to Mars. I saw it when I was 9 or 10. It was the worst movie I have ever seen in my life. I remember crying in the cinema because it was so shit. I hated it so much. I can't remember anything about it, but I hope everyone involved is dead.

        Buena Vista Pictures
      

        The movie you would've taken to a desert island
      

        The Prestige
      

        Warner Bros.
      

        The first movie you saw at a movie theatre
      

        Star Wars: Episode I — The Phantom Menace
      

        20th Century Fox
      

        The last movie you saw at a movie theatre
      

        The Joker
      

        Warner Bros. Pictures
      

        The funniest movie you’ve ever seen
      

        Tag
      

        Warner Bros. Pictures
      

        The scariest movie you've ever seen
      
I fucking despise scary movies. I see no need for them. I'm a coward. Paranormal Activity fucked me up.

        Paramount Pictures
      

        The movie that made you cry hard
      
Oh Christ, here's a list: Blind Side, Warrior, Click (yes, the Adam Sandler movie), Avengers Endgame, Green Mile, About Time, Marley and Me.

        Click (the Adam Sandler movie) / Sony Pictures Releasing
      

        The movie that influenced you the most
      
Ace Ventura or Dumb and Dumber. I loved Jim Carrey as a kid and he definitely inspired my love to make people laugh.

        Ace Ventura / Warner Bros.
      

        The worst movie you've ever seen
      
Juno. Fuck that movie and fuck everyone who likes it. Fucking abysmal pile of shit.

        Fox Searchlight
      

        The best movie you've ever seen
      
The Dark Knight. No more needs to be said on this one. Incredible.

        Warner Bros. Pictures
      
