
# Caitlyn Jenner 'confirmed' for I'm A Celebrity after staggering fee agreed

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:17:52+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/entertainment/celebrity/caitlyn-jenner-confirmed-im-celebrity-20792187)

Hollywood A-lister Caitlyn Jenner is set to head to the I'm A Celebrity jungle.
It's believed a staggering fee has been agreed with the reality star who will fly out to Australia for the ITV series for the first episode.
The show, hosted by Ant and Dec , starts on Sunday, November 17 and could be the biggest year yet of Jenner heads down under.
The 70-year-old, who is currently dating Sophia Hutchins , 23, looks set to be the biggest signing of the year and will be the highest earner.
  
I'm A Celeb bosses have gone all out to get the world's most famous transgender woman and will be hoping she lets slip some Kardashian secrets.
The big money is set to join Ant McPartlin and Dec Donnelly in the jungle - and will come face to face with snakes, spiders and rats, the Mirror reports.
An ITV source told The Sun: “She’s such a huge name and a great get for producers.
“ITV think she is one of their best ever signings. It’s a real bolt from the blue. They’ve asked her every year for a long time, but she finally felt the time was right.”
An ITV spokesperson said: "Any names suggested for I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! are just speculation until we officially confirm our line up."
Caitlyn is no stranger to a popular TV show, as she appeared on Keeping Up with the Kardashians with ex-wife Kris Jenner.
The American has six children, including Kendall and Kylie Jenner , and came out as a transgender woman in April 2015 .
She recently celebrated her 70th birthday at a lavish dinner with some members of her family.
Caitlyn is another name joining the rumoured list of celebrity contestants this year.
Good Morning Britain presenter Kate Garraway, football pundit Ian Wright and Rak Su singer Myles Stephenson could be heading to the jungle.
Other speculated names include former Girls Aloud star Nadine Coyle , Corrie actor Andrew Whyment and ex-EastEnder Jacqueline Jossa.
ITV released another funny teaser for I'm A Celebrity earlier today - which left viewers in stitches.
An initial teaser earlier this month saw Ant and Dec lost and requiring help from fans to send them on their way to the Australian jungle.
It didn't appear they wee getting anywhere though, with viewers choosing for them to face Arctic Antics as the next part of the journey.
The next destination for the pair, which was also voted by TV watchers , shows them tackling stormy seas in a small wooden boat.
The new promo premiered for the first time on ITV on Friday night.
I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! returns Sunday 17th November at 9pm on ITV.
