
# Chiefs’ Rising Star: ‘This Game Is Like No Other…'

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/could-njabulo-blom-gets-his-soweto-derby-debut-this-weekend/666509)

He’d just celebrated his 14th birthday the last time Kaizer Chiefs got an outright win over Orlando Pirates, but today Njabulo Blom could play his part in flipping the script.

        Read: A Message From Kaizer Motaung…
      
The Glamour Boys haven’t had the best of times against their bitter rivals in recent years, with their last victory coming only via a penalty shootout when they met in the Telkom Knockout in 2015, while you have to go back to December 2014 for their last win in 90 minutes.
Njabulo Blom turned 14 just a few days before that 2-0 win in the Absa Premiership five years ago, and has relived growing up in Soweto supporting the Amakhosi with his family before he made it into the big time.
Speaking to Chiefs’ official website, the versatile defender said, “When I was younger, we would all get together in my house and watch the Soweto Derby. Everyone dressed up in their team’s colours, the family was split down the middle with some supporting Chiefs and others Pirates. It was always a special occasion, personally I was always a Chiefs fan.
“This is a huge game historically and it is celebrated by all South Africans. It will mean a lot to me if I could play a part in the game.”
If ‘Stoppa’ does get the nod from Ernst Middendorp then it will be only his third senior game for the club having risen through the ranks to earn a promotion to the first team in March 2019, but he has already proven his worth with a standout performance against Mamelodi Sundowns last month.
This game is bigger though, and Blom adds, “This game is like no other in South African soccer. Two teams with a rich history coming together. I know our supporters leave everything to come and watch us, so it is very important for us to get a good result on Saturday… It is vital for us to focus in training and train the way we always do.”

        Read: Chiefs In Talks With Potential New Signing!
      
Chiefs take on Pirates at 15h00 this afternoon as the two sides battle it out for a spot in the TKO semifinals and a step closer to ending their respective trophy droughts.
