
# The Best iPhone 11 Accessories And Cases Under $100

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Kramer**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottkramer/2019/11/06/the-best-iphone-11-accessories-and-cases-under-100/)

Looking for a little something to go with the latest iPhone 11 – either for yourself or as a gift? Thankfully, there are plenty of products available, in the form of cases and accessories. And you don’t need to spend a fortune, either. 
SafeSleeve’s Detachable wallet case ($60) integrates FCC-accredited shielding technology that can block more than 99 percent of RF radiation and 92+ percent of ELF radiation from your phone. It’s slim and durable. The built-in RFID blocking wallet turns into a stand, as well. And when you don’t want to carry the full wallet around, you can just detach the phone in its rubberized bumper. 
The CLCKR ($10-$15) is a new stand and grip that folds flat when not in use. It offers several viewing positions, while doubling as a grip that provides a firm and comfortable hold of your phone. It’s thin, stylish and comes in an array of colors and designs. 
The JAXJOX Foam RollerConnect fitness device ($99) uses your iPhone 11 to track and optimize muscle recovery. Through five intensity zones, it activates sore or injured muscles by vibrating at optimal frequencies. Just touch a button, select the workout activity you've just completed, and the roller determines how long you should recover and at what intensity level. Or you can take manual control. All the while, you can track your progress on your phone via the JAXJOX or Apple Health app.
The new Double-Insulated Touchscreen Glove from Mujjo ($50/pair) can withstand extreme cold, while letting you still operate your phone with the tap of a finger. It looks like something James Bond might wear. An improvement over its predecessor, the outer shell was upgraded to an ultra-durable, wind-resistant, heavier micro pique. Two extra layers of insulation were also added to create a unique triple-layered construction. It’s also lined with an extra layer of wind-resistant, double-bonded micro fleece, to keep your hands warm and comfortable.
The Smartish Dancing Queen ($30) is a combination purse/clutch with a detachable strap and credit card holder. It also holds cash, for those of you who still carry it. The crossbody strap keeps your hands free, while a removable wristlet is handy. There’s also loops to slide a lip-gloss cylinder through.
For those with Apple’s Air Pods, consider the stylish and convenient Case-Mate Hook Up ($20) that keeps earbuds from scratches and scrapes. It comes with a bud strap and circular ring clip to easily hook onto a bag, belt loop or keychain to avoid losing the Air Pods while traveling. It’s available in more than 20 styles.
Want to protect the iPhone 11 but also care about the environment? Enter Nimble’s Bottle Case 2 ($35-$40), coined the world’s only protective case for iPhones made with 100 percent recycled plastic. Water-resistant, it’s designed with a durable rPET fabric that provides a comfortable grip. It also features a built-in card and ID holder, in the back. Each unique color it’s offered in represents a different nonprofit recipient: Coral Reef Alliance (soft coral); CarbonFund.org (glacier); Sea Save Foundation (deep sea); The Seabin Foundation (seagrass); and WILDCOAST (black sand). With each case sold, Nimble donates 5 percent to those working to protect the planet’s oceans and marine life.
