
# The New Amazon Echo Dot With Clock Is Now $20 Off

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:08:39+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-amazon-echo-dot-with-clock-sale-black-friday-price.html)

Amazon has the brand new Echo Dot with Clock on sale right now for just $39.99. That is good for $20 off of its regular retail price.
Now obviously, since this just started shipping a few weeks ago, this is the first price drop and it is now at an all-time low price. So definitely worth picking up.
The Echo Dot with Clock is essentially what it sounds like. It's the same third-generation Echo Dot, but now it comes with an LED clock on the front. It's a very simple change, but one that will change your life.
Advertisement
Think about it. Imagine having the Echo Dot sitting on your desk. And now that it has a clock on it, you can just glance over and see what time it is, without really having to do much of anything. Of course, Alexa can tell you the time, but now you don't need to ask her for it.
The only unfortunate thing about the Echo Dot with Clock, is that it is only available in the sandstone color – the light gray and white color. It would be nice to see it in the heather gray color.
With this still being an Echo Dot though, you still get to listen to all of your favorite songs through services like Amazon Prime Music, Pandora, Audible, Spotify and so much more. Alexa is also still there to answer all of your questions and also control your smart home products. It's the same Echo Dot that we all know and love so much, but now it has a clock built-in.
Advertisement
The regular Echo Dot is also on sale for $20 off, which takes it down to $29.99. This would make a really great stocking stuffer this year.
You can pick up the Echo Dot with Clock in this limited time sale from Amazon by clicking here.

        Amazon Echo Dot with Clock - Amazon - $39.99
      
Advertisement
