
# Why is Trump Praising Sen. Rand Paul Amid Ukraine Whistleblower Conspiracy?

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:29:06+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911051077229021-why-is-trump-praising-sen-rand-paul-amid-ukraine-whistleblower-conspiracy/)


        The identity of the whistleblower who complained about Donald Trump allegedly pressuring his Ukrainian counterpart into launching an investigation into US presidential candidate Joe Biden, which resulted in an impeachment inquiry against the president, remains unknown to the public, but a number of Republicans are calling for him to reveal himself.
      
Donald Trump praised Republican Senator Rand Paul during a campaign rally in Kentucky on Monday after the lawmaker insisted that the media name the whistleblower in the Ukraine scandal, with the US president calling the proposal “excellent”.
Paul demanded that the media reveal the identity of the anonymous whistleblower who complained about Donald Trump allegedly pressuring Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky during their 25 July phone call into investigating potential corruption by former Vice President Joe Biden and his son Hunter, with the complaint resulting in the commencement of an impeachment inquiry against the US president by the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives.  
While the whistleblower remains a subject to federal protection and his attorneys have been negotiating with Congress on holding a possible testimony that would still protect his identity, as reported by The Hill, Paul has insisted that the identity of the individual is known to the media, as he had allegedly worked for former Vice President Joe Biden - something which the senator claims undermines the person’s credibility and impartiality.
“I say tonight to the media, do your job and print his name”, Paul said to the crowd.
Earlier on Monday, Trump himself called upon the whistleblower to testify in front of the public, saying that written answers to the impeachment inquiry proceedings would not be accepted.
