
# Reported dog deaths prompt warning to parents at North Delta school

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:56:00+00:00**

Author: **James Smith**

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/news/reported-dog-deaths-prompt-warning-to-parents-at-north-delta-school/)

Staff at Sunshine Hills Elementary have “closed” access to the woods behind the school after receiving a report that two dogs may have died after ingesting something poisonous in the forest.
In a letter sent to parents yesterday (Thursday, Oct. 31), principal Jody Billingsley said the school had been notified by a community member that two dogs in the neighbourhood died this week after possibly ingesting something poisonous in the woods behind the school.
In response, school staff have “closed the tree-line” behind the school during recess and lunch and have asked students and families who cut through the forest on their way to or from school or to play in the park behind the school to use the sidewalk bordering the property instead.
“In an abundance of caution, we want to take some safety measures while we await further information from police,” Billingsley wrote. “Our communication to students has been the access to the forest areas is to protect their [Halloween] costumes, as we do not wish to alarm them.”
Delta police public affairs manager Cris Leykauf confirmed police are looking into the matter but said they don’t have much information yet.
The North Delta Reporter has reached out to the Delta Community Animal Shelter for more information about the reported dog deaths and will update this story as we learn more.
The woods behind the school are part of Sunshine Hills Park, which includes a playground on the south-west corner, the Sunshine Hills Tennis Club and Sunshine Hills Parent Participation Preschool.
Mandip Kahrod, enrolment co-ordinator and parent volunteer at SHPPP, said parents at the preschool are aware of the letter from Sunshine Hills Elementary but don’t seem to be particularly on edge because of it.
“Most families live locally and there’s many that walk so I think everyone’s vigilant,” Kahrod said, adding the school is fenced off from the rest of the park. “No one seems to be particularly on edge but I think just aware.”
“Everyone’s probably keeping an extra close eye on their kids, and maybe not going through the forest is their first choice. I mean, it clearly is cause for concern, but the kids do get picked up or dropped off and I think as long as we’re all aware we’re just going to keep an eye on things and see how it progresses.”
Many online have speculated that the dogs may have ingested poisonous mushrooms growing in the park, though that has not been confirmed. In late October, the BC Centre for Disease Control issued a warning to wild mushroom foragers and consumers after a rise in poisoning so far this year.
As of Sept. 30, Poison Control had received 201 mushroom poisoning calls, making 2019 one of the most active years in recent history. Comparatively, there were 202 calls in 2018, an increase from the 161 calls in 2017.

        
          READ MORE: Mushroom poisoning on the rise, warns BC Centre for Disease Control
        
      

        
          RELATED: Victoria puppy dies after consuming poisonous mushrooms
        
      
Fly agaric mushrooms, also known as amanita muscaria, are the classic red toadstool with white warts seen in cartoons. The species is very common, growing in borreal forests across Canada and the United States during the fall, but is also very poisonous. While fly agarics aren’t always deadly, they can have devastating affects on people and pets, including hallucinations, sleepiness and severe gastrointestinal problems.
“The amanita family contains some of the most deadly mushrooms we know of,” said Brian Starzomski, director of the School of Environmental Studies at the University of Victoria. Starzomski added some of the fly agaric’s relatives include amanita phalloides, better known as the death cap mushroom, and aminita ocreata, a.k.a. the destroying angel.

        
          READ MORE: ‘Cartoony’ mushrooms popping up across Vancouver Island are poisonous
        
      

        
          RELATED: Island Health issues warning after death cap mushrooms found in Greater Victoria
        
      
News of two dogs reportedly dying after possibly ingesting something they found in a North Delta park reminded some online of a group of incidents earlier this year in which raw meat was left just off a trail in Watershed Park.
Four times this summer, Delta police were contacted regarding suspicious meat that had been left in the park near the trail entrance by 63rd Avenue, however testing showed the meat was not poisoned and police determined it had not been dumped with malicious intent — either towards animals or people.
Police warned the individual responsible against dumping meat and made them aware of the concern it caused the community.

        
          READ MORE: Meat dumped in North Delta park not poisoned
        
      
There is no indication that these incidents are related to the reported dog deaths in Sunshine Hills.

        More to come…
      

        — with files from Kendra Crighton and Nicole Crescenzi
      
