
# PBS Celebrates 50th Anniversary With Vibrant Logo Suitable For The Digital Era

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407209/PBS-Celebrates-50th-Anniversary-With-Vibrant-Logo-Suitable-For-The-Digital-Era/)

PBS (Public Broadcasting Service) has unveiled a new logo for the brand, featuring a “vibrant signature color” PBS blue in order to convey “trust and integrity,” according to PBS press release. The new visual identity will be officially rolled out in 2020 as the brand commemorates its 50th anniversary. Ira Rubenstein, Chief Digital & Marketing Officer of PBS, has explained the new development as a way to “represent” their new identity in the digital age, while holding on to the “iconic aspects” of the brand. The term “PBS” is rendered in a custom type that is larger and more “highly legible” across the multiple platforms where the service is available. It is also designed to be more “modern” and “prominent” than the older, more serious logo in traditional black. Advertisement Advertisement To come up with the new design, PBS partnered with Lippincott, a global creative consultancy. The whole thought and execution process took two years, with “diverse considerations” the audiences, member stations and partners of PBS to find an identity that can speak to them. Connie Birdsall, global creative director at Lippincott, explained that the new visual identity is meant to reflect “modernity” and “flexibility” for a brand that now spans both broadcast and digital media. It is also created to appeal to both local and global communities who are fans of PBS. Check out the evolution of the PBS brand below. In 2020, an estimated 70 percent of local PBS member stations based will be using the new logo to bring about brand consistency.
