
# Bomb joke explodes in plane passenger’s face

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:04:58+00:00**

Author: **Itchie G. Cabayan**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/bomb-joke-explodes-plane-passengers-face)

Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) spokesman Eric Apolonio said that the agency’s Operation Center (OPCEN)  received an incident report regarding a passenger of Airphil Davao to Cebu flight GAP2364 who was apprehended after uttering a bomb joke.
A report from Davao International Airport officer-in-charge Rex Obcena said the passenger, identified as Ramon Barrios, made a reference to a bomb, which according to him was only a joke while he was on board the aircraft. Barrios was consequently arrested by the PNP Aviation Security Unit (AVSEU) personnel and has been held for further investigation.
All passengers and cargo on board were offloaded in order to facilitate the aircraft security check, causing a delay in the flight.
Meanwhile, Apolonio said CAAP personnel at the airport distributed bottled waters to affected passengers as part of the ‘Malasakit’ assistance initiative.
After the security check, GAP2364 flight was able to safely depart Davao at 9:47 a.m. yesterday while Barrios has been turned over to the local Sasa Police for the filing of appropriate charges.
Under Presidential Decree 1727, or the Anti-Bomb Joke Law, violators may face imprisonment of not more than five years or a fine of not more than P40,000, or both, at the discretion of the court.
The law, signed by President Ferdinand Marcos in 1980, declared unlawful and penalizes the malicious dissemination of false information and the making of any threat concerning bombs, explosives, or any similar device or means of destruction.
