
# Making the Grade: Robo Wunderkind is the perfect first STEM tool for young kids

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:03+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Chambers**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/02/robo-wunderkind/)

I’ve been testing out the Robo Wunderkind Robotics Kit for the past couple of months from the perspective of an educator and a parent. I’ve tested out a dozen or so of these types of products (building blocks + iPad app), and they’ve all had one thing in common: they can be overwhelming for kids. Many of them include hundreds of pieces with pages full of options of things to create. After spending some time with it, I am ready to give you my Robo Wunderkind Robotics Kit review.
About Making The Grade: Every other Saturday, Bradley Chambers publishes a new article about Apple in education. He has been managing Apple devices in an education environment since 2009. Through his experience deploying and managing 100s of Macs and 100s of iPads, Bradley will highlight ways in which Apple’s products work at scale, stories from the trenches of IT management, and ways Apple could improve its products for students.
Like I mentioned earlier, the paradox of choice is a common problem I have with a lot of these types of kits, but the Robo Wunderkind kit takes a hard stance to avoid that. The kit comes in two options: 17 pieces or 23 pieces. I love that model. Instead of telling kids they can create 1000s of possible combinations using hundreds of pieces, you can go to a child and say you have 23 pieces: what can you do?
I think that shows a lot of thoughtfulness in the minds of the creators. One of the problems I think we all face in 2019 is having too many options. We had thousands of movies, TV shows, books, videos, etc. to take our time. Even as an adult, I can often feel overwhelmed.
The kit comes with a handful of different types of pieces:
