
# Rugby World Cup final’s TV viewing figures hit 12.8m peak – the best of 2019

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:22:15+00:00**

Author: **Sean Ingle**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/rugby-world-cup-final-tv-figures-yearly-best-12m-peak-2019)


        • England defeat is most watched sport programme since 2018 • ITV’s broadcast tops Line of Duty’s final episode at 12.1m
      
England’s Rugby World Cup final defeat was the most watched British TV event of the year so far, with a peak audience of 12.8 million tuning in to see Eddie Jones’ side lose to South Africa 32-12 on Saturday morning.
Not only did the match on ITV beat the final episode of series five of Line of Duty, which had 12.1m viewers, but it was also the most-watched sports programme on any channel since the 2018 football World Cup. This year’s best figures had been for the Women’s World Cup semi-final between England and USA (11.8m peak), the Wimbledon men’s final (10.4m) and cricket’s World Cup final (7.8m).
At one point 79% of the TV viewing audience across Britain was watching the match – while the average audience throughout game was 8.9m.
And the Rugby Football Union, which governs the sport in England, has told the Guardian it will distribute 10,000 new balls to clubs this week as part of a strategy to help them cope with the expected influx of young people wanting to play the game.
Steve Grainger, the RFU’s development officer, said the move was part of a broader plan to ensure the interest the sport has generated during the autumn was not squandered like many believe it was when England lifted their only World Cup 16 years ago. “There is a view that in 2003 we probably weren’t ready,” he added. “And these days if somebody turns up at a club and they don’t get a good welcome, or they’re a nine-year-old kid and don’t get the opportunity to touch a ball, they won’t come back for the second week.
