
# UFC 244 Diaz vs Masvidal fight card, UK start time, TV channel and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:51:50+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/ufc-244-diaz-vs-masvidal-20078983)

The main event at UFC 244 sees Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz face off in a highly anticipated bout for the 'BMF' belt, created especially for this fight by UFC to mark the 500th event.
The ‘BMF’ belt will be presented by Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson with the winner also elevating himself into welterweight title contention.
Meanwhile, Liverpool native and No.10 ranked UFC welterweight Darren Till makes his debut in the middleweight division against No.4 ranked Kelvin Gastelum in the night’s co-main event.
Till has spoken openly about the risk associated with facing such a quality opponent in his first fight in the division, but believes he has nothing to lose and is taking a chance in going for glory.
Here is everything you need to know about tonight's fights...
The first fights on the early prelim card will start at 10.30pm GMT. The prelims will then begin at midnight with the main card starting at 2am.
Expect Till and Gastelum to be in the cage around 3.30am with Diaz and Masvidal following after.
The fights will be shown on BT Sport 1 in the UK with coverage starting at midnight.
The fights can be streamed by BT customers on BT Sport 1 using the website or app.
If you are not a BT customer but are an EE customer, you can sign up for a free trial and watch the fights at no cost. Click here to sign up

        Main card
      
Jorge Masvidal vs Nate Diaz
Kelvin Gastelum vs Darren Till
Stephen Thompson vs Vicente Luque
Derrick Lewis vs Blagoy Ivanov
Kevin Lee vs Gregor Gillespie

        Preliminary card
      
Corey Anderson vs Johnny Walker
Shane Burgos vs Makwan Amirkhani
Brad Tavares vs Edmen Shahbazyan
Andrei Arlovski vs Jairzinho Rozenstruik

        Early Preliminary card
      
Jennifer Maia vs Katlyn Chookagian
Lyman Good vs Chance Rencountre
Julio Arce vs Hakeem Dawodu
Masvidal 1/2
Diaz 6/4
Jorge Masvidal is ready to fight Conor McGregor next year.
The Irishman has not fought since he was choked out by Khabib Nurmagomedov last October in their lightweight world title fight.
But McGregor is due to return on January 18 against Donald Cerrone and will then target the winner of Masvidal's fight against Nate Diaz tonight.
And Masvidal is ready to grant him his wish.
"Conor’s done amazing things in this sport, and I always give – not always – but I try to give credit where credit is due," he said.
"He’s got two belts, he’s got the fastest knockout with the title, he’s done a lot of great things, you know. But as of late, he hasn’t competed in a while.
"I’m just hearing things; I’m not seeing. If he comes back and fights, fights whoever he fights and wins, and wants to fight me, of course I’m going to fight that guy over everybody just like I’m going to fight Nate, because Nate’s a huge dog.
"Conor’s the same, he’s a fighter. He might not be the toughest guy, but he’s a hell of a fighter, and he brings in millions of dollars, so of course I’m going to fight that guy over all these other bums. It’s a no-brainer, man. But is he fighting? I don’t know."
