
# Alexander Urtula's Girlfriend Sent Him Hundreds of Texts to 'Go Die.' Then, He Killed Himself.

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Rose Minutaglio**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/career-politics/a29657785/inyoung-you-alexander-urtula-texts-enables-abuse/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

At 8:35 a.m. on May 20, Boston College biology major Alexander Urtula, 22, leapt to his death from the top floor of a parking garage just 90 minutes before he was set to graduate. Prosecutors say his girlfriend, fellow Boston College student Inyoung You tracked his location using her phone, as she often did, and was there when he jumped.
You, 21, was "physically, verbally and psychologically abusive" to Urtula, according to the Suffolk County District Attorney's Office, and the abuse became "more frequent, more powerful, and more demeaning" before he died by suicide. Over a two-month period, she allegedly texted him 47,000 times, including hundreds of admonitions to "go die." Prosecutors claim You coerced Urtula to kill himself via text; You reportedly told authorities she tried to stop him. Now, she faces a charge of involuntary manslaughter for her role in his death.
Partners use digital connectivity to show affection and to stay safe (Ever tell someone, "Text me when you get there?"), but technology as a tool to exert power over someone constitutes a form of abuse, according to the National Domestic Violence Hotline. Like other types of intimate partner violence (emotional, verbal, physical, sexual, even financial), the NDVH finds that digital domestic abuse is, at its core, a control mechanism. It happens gradually and can manifest into password stealing, unauthorized home surveillance, control over who one can and can't be friends with on social media, GPS stalking, and relentless texting.
"We have people who share experiences of constant texts and checking in [from partners], but don’t realize this is actually a form of abuse," NDVH's director of digital services Rosemary Estrada-Rade tells ELLE.com. "If you’re afraid of what will happen when you don’t respond, that’s a cue. How does your partner respond if you’re not in constant contact?"
NDVH reports an 800 percent increase in digital domestic abuse cases since 2015. Last year, the busiest year ever for NDVH, more than 15 percent of their callers survived some type of digital domestic abuse, often over text or DM. Receiving constant messages throughout the day, to the point that it interferes with daily activities or incites a fear about not responding, is a major indicator of digital abuse. "When there’s fear involved, it’s abuse," says Estrada-Rade. "We had someone [call in] whose partner made them stay on FaceTime while they were falling asleep, so they could keep their eye on them and monitor what they were doing."
Speaking anonymously to ELLE.com, one of Urtula's close friends says he knew Urtula and You had "relationship issues," but didn't realize how bad it really was until after the Suffolk County DA accused You last week of inundating Urtula with "manipulative attempts and threats of self-harm" to isolate him from friends and family. She has reportedly since withdrawn from classes at Boston College and is now living in her native South Korea. Efforts by ELLE.com to reach You have been unsuccessful.
Though Estrada-Rade can't speak specifically to Urtula, she says it's not uncommon for men to show a reluctance to talk with friends and family about digital domestic abuse. She says it's usually out of fear they won't be believed, or because of a "societal norm that men should be strong and not show feelings or see themselves as victims."
The case has drawn comparisons to the 2014 texting incident involving Michelle Carter, who was similarly convicted of involuntary manslaughter charges after repeatedly urging Conrad Roy to kill himself. In dozens of messages that came to light during her trial, Carter seemingly pushed Roy to end his life, continuing to do so even when he hesitated:
People behave differently when they're operating from behind a screen, but abuse is abuse whether it's online or in person, Laura Palumbo of the National Sexual Violence Resource Center tells ELLE.com. Because technology allows greater access to partners, digital boundaries become even more important in a relationship.
"If you feel comfortable, talk directly about how their actions impact you," she says. "You don’t need to shrug it off as no big deal. In a healthy relationship, partners can openly communicate even about tough topics. If you feel uncomfortable talking to them directly, you may also choose to ignore it, block them or talk to a friend or loved one instead."
