
# 7 pushers nabbed in Cavite, over P2M shabu confiscated

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:16:43+00:00**

Author: **Celso C. Lidot**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/7-pushers-nabbed-cavite-over-p2m-shabu-confiscated)

In a report to Calabarzon Regional Director Brig. General Vicente D. Danao, Police Provincial Director Col. William M. Segun identified the arrested suspects as Victoriano Sico, 45, married, mechanic of Bgy. Pascam General Trias, Cavite; Angelo Cadano, 28, single, jobless; Jonalyn Cacatian, 33, female, jobless’ Sonny Boy Parohinog, 37, jobless; and Joseph Calnan, 37, driver and a resident of Bgy Pascam 2, General Trias City, Cavite.
Recovered from their possession were 48.20 grams of suspected shabu with a street value of P326,400 and the buy bust money.
An hour later, the operatives arrested two other suspects in Greengate Homes, Malagasang 2-A. They were identified as Kevin Ramirez, a call center agent, and Krisha Mendoza, 24, female, casino dealer and a resident of Malagasang 2-A, Imus City, Cavite.
Recovered from their possession were 291.18 grams of shabu with a street value of P1,980,024 and buy bust money.
The seven pushers yielded a total of 339.38 grams of shabu worth P2,306.454 million.
The suspects were apprised of their constitutional rights and brought to the police custodial center in preparation for inquest proceedings before the Office of Provincial Prosecutors for violation of RA 9165 or Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
