
# Irvine Meadow 4 Benburb 3: Penalties galore as Medda edge seven goal thriller

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:23:33+00:00**

Author: **Eric McGowan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/eric-mcgowan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/irvine-meadow-4-benburb-3-20824674)

A great game for neutrals but definitely not managers.
That’s how Irvine Meadow boss Brian McGinty summed up an action packed 90 minutes that served up seven goals, four penalties and a glut of goalmouth action from start to finish.
Only at the sound of the full-time whistle could McGinty finally relax as his side hung on for all three points that lifts them to second in the West Premiership.
Meadow undoubtedly made life difficult for themselves, falling behind to an early goal then relinquishing a 3-1 lead in the second half.
There was echoes of the Pollok stalemate a few weeks ago but Reece Pearson’s spot kick 17 minutes from time was enough to clinch victory.
 
McGinty insisted: “I thought we deserved to win over the course of the 90 minutes.
“For the first 10 minutes or so we were sloppy and looked a bit leggy.
“But after we went behind I thought we were excellent for the rest of the first half.
“We created so many great chances and, in all honesty, if we’d gone in five or 6-1 up at half time I don’t think Benburb could have had any complaints.
“We didn’t start the second half particularly well and they’ve scored twice to put us under a bit of pressure.
“We stayed strong though and showed good character to get the win.”
Benburb got off to the perfect start when Ryan McCrone blasted them in front from the penalty spot after only nine minutes.
Meadow were awarded a penalty of their own five minutes later when Andy McLaughlin was brought down just inside the box but Mark McLennan's effort was saved by keeper Ross Connelly.
 
It wasn’t long before the home side were back on level terms however, McLaughlin expertly controlling the ball in mid-air and twisting to smash a first time volley into the net from 17 yards.
Brendan Sharpe then showed some fine footwork to skip past a couple of Bens’ defenders before unleashing a low drive into the net from a similar distance.
Meadow were now well on top and it was no surprise when they added a third goal 11 minutes before half-time.
McLaughlin turned provider this time, pouncing on some defensive dithering to tee up Colin Spence for a simple side footed finish from 16 yards.
Ryan Carnwath should have made it four when a low cross found him in acres of space at the back post but his shot from close range flew over the bar.
Benburb started the second half on the front foot, striker James Marks tugging a shot wide of the target early on.
The visitors then reduced the deficit in 50 minutes, Kieran McAllister’s free-kick sneaking under a defensive wall that leapt in unison and into the bottom corner of the net.
Two minutes later it was all square after the award of a third penalty, McCrone once again making no mistake from the spot.
 
It was end-to-end stuff and the award of yet another penalty – this time for Meadow – in 73 minutes settled the match. McLaughlin was felled again and Pearson sent the keeper the wrong way from 12 yards to make it 4-3.
Benburb pushed hard for an equaliser in the closing stages, former Medda man Marks coming closest with a last-gasp free header that crept narrowly over the crossbar much to the relief of the home players and support.
