
# Neil Lennon delivers Scott Brown Celtic quip and hints at contract change of heart

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **David McCarthy, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/david-mccarthy/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/neil-lennon-delivers-scott-brown-20811468)

Evergreen Scott Brown could be handed a contract extension that sees him continue to lead Celtic from the front until at least 2022.
The Parkhead skipper's sensational form at the age of 34 has convinced boss Neil Lennon that talks over adding to Brown's current deal that ends in the summer of 2021 are worth considering.
The midfielder hinted heavily at the signing of his latest deal that it will probably be his last but Lennon is adamant Brown has plenty left in the tank - and he's proving it week after week.
He was outstanding as Celtic made the final of the Betfred Cup against Hibs on Saturday and Lennon's captain will be leading his side once again on Thursday night as the Hoops take on Lazio in Rome.
Lennon said: "He’s incredible. And I think he’s playing as well as ever.
"I look at Rangers away, Lazio, Hibs on Saturday, Aberdeen away and other games.
"He had a little bit of a toe problem at the start of the season, that was curtailing him. But he’s over that now.
"As for another contract, the way he’s playing at the minute, it might cost us a few bob!
"It will depend on how he’s feeling and how he’s playing at the time. I think he’s got another year after this one.
‘We’ll take a view of that maybe this time next year, with him as well.
"He’s in a good place and the players respect him and look up to him.
"He’s not in the team as a cheerleader. He’s in the team because he’s a bloody good player.
"And he keeps churning out consistent performances that we don’t take for granted."
Brown grabbed a brace at the weekend and Lennon says he's delighted his skipper is contributing to the scoring charts, but admitted his eye for goal is a bonus.
He added: "He scored a couple of really important goals last year. And he’s come up again with two against Hibs.
"And we’re getting goals from everywhere.
"Callum McGregor scored again, which I’m delighted with, because that’s him on five or so for the season.
"Forrest is scoring. Edouard, Elyounoussi, Christie … so it’s the sum of all those parts, really.
"But if Scott is then weighing in with goals, on top of what he already does for the team, I’m delighted with that."
