
# Soldier, village chief yield P15M shabu in Mindanao raids

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:27:31+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/soldier-village-chief-yield-p15m-shabu-mindanao-raids)

Aquino said  Sergeant Oscar Dapriza, a member of the Army’s 10th Infantry Division stationed in Makilala, North Cotabato and his female friend Myrene Ferolino were arrested in a  buy-bust in Barangay New Bunawan, Tulunan, Cotabato.
Confiscated from the suspects were a gram of shabu worth P6,800, a Glock 17 .9mm semi-automatic pistol with two magazines containing eight live bullets and the marked money they received from a poseur from the PDEA Regional Office 12.
In Surigao City, members of the PDEA Regional Office 13 arrested Loel Joy Mesias, chair of Bgy. Lipata, following a Friday raid which led to the recovery of at least P72,000 worth of shabu.
Aquino said  local PDEA and police operatives raided the residence of the “high-value target” in Purok 1-A,  Bgy. Lipata, Surigao City where they seized around six grams of shabu and a loaded .38 revolver.
In Cotabato, PDEA Region 12 agents arrested Sukarno Salmpuna,47; and Noraisa Samulpa, 40, both suspected members of the Tarantula Drug Group operating in Central Mindanao in a raid at their house in Sitio Galay, Bgy. Kibayao,  Carmen town and recovered at least 175 grams of shabu worth P1.2 million and P27,700 cash in different denominations.
In Zamboanga City, PDEA Region 9 operatives arrested five suspected “HVTs” in buy-bust over the weekened and confiscated an  estimated P13.6 million worth of shabu.
Aquino identified the suspects as Judatol Mohamod, Alih Yacub, Pae Kamsa, Warid Palahaudin and Julim Salapuddin.
He said  the five suspects were arrested while conspiring to sell the drugs to a poseur in front of a food chain in Bgy. San Jose in Zamboanga City.
Members of the PDEA Region 9 and the local police recovered some two kilos of  drugs and the marked money from the suspects.
