
# Man Utd ready to hijack Liverpool's move for Timo Werner in January transfer window

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Mullock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/simon-mullock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-ready-hijack-liverpools-20795362)

Manchester United are ready to hijack Liverpool’s bid to bring German striker Timo Werner to the Premier League.
United, who drew a blank in defeat at Bournemouth , are ready to make a move for 23-year-old RB Leipzig hit-man in the January transfer window in an effort to beat their Anfield rivals to one of Europe’s most highly-rated finishers.
Werner signed a new four-year contract with Leipzig in the summer when his dream move to Bayern Munich failed to materialise.
But the agreement included a buy-out clause of just £27million.
And after failing to replace Romelu Lukaku after allowing Belgian – who had topped the Old Trafford goal charts in each of the previous two seasons to move to Inter Milan – Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has a weakness in his squad that needs addressing.
United believe the promise of regular starts under Solskjaer will enable them to beat Jurgen Klopp to his countryman.
Werner fits the profile United now use to identify targets in terms of age and ability to develop into a world-class talent.
And he also offers genuine value for money in an increasingly competitive market.
Liverpool already have Mo Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firminho as their front three and would ideally like to sign the player next year.
Werner, who moved to east Germany from his hometown club in 2016, has won 28 caps for his country.
United have sent scouts to watch him in every game he has played this season for Leipzig.
Werner has netted 11 goals in 16 appearances for club and country after scoring 21 times last season.
