
# New Poppy Bus from Lothian Buses

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:06:47+00:00**

Author: **John-Paul Clark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-paul-clark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/new-poppy-bus-lothian-buses-20809788)

A striking new bus designed to commemorate Remembrance Day 2019 will be on the streets of West Lothian this November.
The ‘Poppy Bus’ was unveiled last week as part of the Edinburgh Poppy Day event at St Andrew Square and to make the occasion extra special, Lothian Buses invited former service personnel who now work for the company to attend.
The bus will run on various routes throughout Edinburgh and the Lothians across November so keep your eye out for it hitting the roads in West Lothian.
Gordon Michie, head of fundraising at Poppyscotland said: “The poppy bus is a stunning tribute and underlines Lothian’s continued support of Poppyscotland. We are incredibly grateful to them for their ongoing commitment to the charity, and in turn to the Armed Forces community. Together, we are Behind Them. Always. The poppy bus will help to remind the people of Edinburgh and the surrounding area about the importance of the Scottish Poppy Appeal and the Remembrance period. We hope it will encourage the public to dig deep so we can continue to provide our life-changing support in the year ahead.”
 
As well as the specially created bus the company will fundraise internally by making poppies and remembrance garden crosses available for sale to its staff. The company will also be offering a free hot drink for all current and ex-services personnel every morning in November from its CoffeeHub inside the Shandwick Place TravelHub.
Richard Hall, Lothian’s Managing Director, said: “Lothian is proud to have many employees across our business who currently serve in the reserves or are ex-armed forces personnel and the Poppyscotland appeal is particularly close to the hearts of both our staff and our customers.
“We hope that our various activities running throughout the month of November, along with this years Poppy bus, will help raise both awareness and vital funds for this great charity to allow them to continue to support the Armed Forces Community across Scotland.”
