
# Milton Keynes 'murder': Two teens hold key information to house party stabbings

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:53:04+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/milton-keynes-murder-two-teens-20826605)

These two teenagers hold key information to help catch the murderers of two boys killed at a birthday party, police say.
Officers want to talk urgently to Jamie Chandler, 15, and Clayton Barker, 19, to aid the investigation into the deaths of Dom Ansah and Ben Gillham-Rice.
Mr Ansah died from a stab wound to the back, while Mr Gillham-Rice was knifed in the chest at the property in Emerson Valley, Milton Keynes, last month.
"We are releasing the names and images of Jamie Chandler and Clayton Barker, as we believe that they both have crucial information that will assist our investigation and we need to speak to them," Head of Crime for Thames Valley Police, Detective Chief Superintendent Ian Hunter, said today.
“I am appealing directly to both Jamie Chandler and Clayton Barker to make contact with police as soon as possible.
“I am also asking for the public’s help. If anybody knows the whereabouts of either Jamie Chandler or Clayton Barker, please contact the 24-hour non-emergency number 101, quoting URN 857 (5/11).
“The public have been incredibly supportive of this investigation so far, and I am appealing once again for their help."
Mr Ansah and Mr Gillham-Rice, both 17, were rushed to hospital but doctors were unable to save the boys.
Two males were also seriously injured in the attack.
Charlie Chandler, 21, of Bletchley, Buckinghamshire, Earl Bevans, 22, of no fixed abode, and a 16-year-old boy, from Milton Keynes, have been charged with two counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder.
But Det Chief Supt Hunter continued: “You can also make this report online if you wish, or call the independent charity Crimestoppers for 100% anonymity on 0800 555 111.
“If either Jamie Chandler or Clayton Barker see this appeal, or anybody is with them or knows where they are, I again re-iterate the importance of getting in touch with police.
“Our investigation into the circumstances of this tragic incident continues, and I would like to thank the public for all their help so far.”
The investigation continues.
