
# Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain makes admission over substitute role at Liverpool

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:56:07+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/alex-oxlade-chamberlain-makes-admission-20785835)

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain says he must improve to secure a regular starting spot in Liverpool's midfield after he admitted he was not happy with his performance in the Carabao Cup win over Arsenal .
The 26-year-old made his sixth start of the season for the Reds during the 5-5 draw at Anfield, which Jurgen Klopp's youthful side went on to win on penalties.
Oxlade-Chamberlain, who missed most of last season with a serious knee injury, found the net with a stunning long-range effort to help Liverpool book a quarter-final meeting with Aston Villa.
It was the midfielder's third goal in two games, adding to a brace against Genk the previous week, but he accepts he was far from his best against his former club.
"Quality-wise, I am not too happy with my performance to be honest," said Oxlade-Chamberlain.
"I wasn't great on the ball and not near my own personal level of where I want to be. I put in a good shift and run a lot.
"I watch the boys of a weekend and I know what it is about here. You have got to be at a really high physical level to go and put in a performance like that.
"Fab (Fabinho) did really well at the weekend so I need to keep pushing myself and maybe I will get a chance."
Oxlade-Chamberlain's strike against Unai Emery's side was his eighth goal in 55 matches for Liverpool and was the latest in a number of stunning efforts he has produced since making the switch from North London in 2017.
It followed another outstanding finish with the outside of his right foot in the 4-1 Champions League win in Belgium, and the England international admitted that the quality of his latest goal made it hard to contain his emotions.
"At the minute they are not tap-ins, let's put it that way," he added.
"It was a pretty good goal so it was really hard to keep the celebrations in but that is always something that I knew I would do against my former club.
"I always want to show a lot of respect for Arsenal and what they did for me and the times I had there.
"I didn't want to celebrate but it was a tough one to hold in. I wanted to take my shirt off and go mad.
"I have been given license to shoot from outside the box and the last few games I've managed to do that. Hopefully it continues."
