
# State to set up monkey parks in Shivamogga

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/state-to-set-up-monkey-parks-in-shivamogga/articleshow/71930568.cms)

Karnataka may soon have a ‘monkey park’ or rehabilitation centre for all the captured monkeys. With Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa asking forest department officials to find a 100-acre land to create a monkey park for rehabilitating trouble-making simians from his home district Shivamogga, residents in Namma Bengaluru have urged the CM to create another monkey park, in city’s outskirts. The residents say that the ‘monkey menace’ in Bengaluru is beyond control and a monkey park can be a real boon. On Tuesday morning, CM met officials along with his son BY Raghavendra (who represents Shivamogga parliamentary seat) over relocating monkeys of Shivamogga district. Several complaints of monkeys targeting farm lands have been reported from Shivamogga district. Raghavendra suggested a monkey park in the Sharavathi backwaters. This proposal is to equip the park with fruit bearing trees so the monkeys do not find reason to move out of the park. Reacting to this proposal, the forest department officials said that they were open to the idea and want to visit Himachal Pradesh, where a similar experiment was conducted, for study. This seemed to have not gone down too well with the CM, as he blamed the officials for wasting time on study trips and instructed the pilot project to be taken up immediately in Shivamogga district and then be extended to other parts of the State. Poojita Kumar, a resident of Whitefield said that the monkey menace in her area has made life very difficult for the neighbourhood. Not only are children in danger, but even adults with bags are attacked. She strongly supports the State’s monkey park idea and believes that it will help curb the menace. Anuj Sharma, a resident of Vidyaranyapura too thinks that a monkey park will be of great help. “If we find a monkey catcher, the biggest challenge is where should these monkeys be let out. If there is a designated park, then it will be a win-win situation as we can get rid of these monkeys and they will get a home.” Residents have often complained about the cost of capturing monkeys sky-rocketing to Rs 1 lakh. Environmentalists have also praised the idea. “Loss of habitat was the reason for monkeys invading urban areas. The fruit bearing trees has now made way for concrete jungle. Even in rural areas, people are now growing only commercial trees. So, it will be great if the government can keep their word,” said a green activist.
