
# Chiefs stay top after easy win over Chippa

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:35:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/chiefs-stay-top-after-easy-win-over-chippa-20191106)

Cape Town - Kaizer Chiefs strengthened their position at the top of the Absa Premiership standings on Wednesday night as they beat Chippa United 2-0 at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.
The hosts were fearless in the opening 10 minutes of the clash against the league leaders and peppered their goal with long shots as Silas Maziya marauded down the left flank on a few occasions before cutting inside to unleash with his right foot.
However, it was at the other end of the pitch where the first clear-cut opportunity fell for Siyabonga Ngezana. A corner kick found the defender in the box but his header flashed over the bar.
Amakhosi seemed to find their rhythm as the first half wore on. Samir Nurkovic whipped in a cross from the right flank but Lazarous Kambole and Philani Zulu both failed to make contact with the ball.
Maziya was once again a thorn in the visitors' side as he outfoxed the defenders to find space to shoot from 15 yards out, but his composure escaped him and he sent the ball flying into the stands.
Chippa endured some rotten luck in the first half as they were forced into making all three of their substitutions due to injuries. They lost both central defenders in Elvis Moyo and Frederic Nsabiyumva, while Boikanyo Komane also had to leave the pitch.
Chiefs came closest to scoring just before the interval when a perfectly weighted pass over the top of the defence from Willard Katsande picked out Samir Nurkovic whose volley rattled the Chippa bar.
After a relatively quiet start to the second half Chippa came close to levelling matters when Chidi Kwem connected with the cross curled in from deep by Gregory Damons, but he directed his header just wide.
The deadlock was broken in fine style in the 67th minute by Dumisani Zuma. Katsande found Zulu just outside the Chippa box and the midfielder's first touch put him in space inside the area from where he calmly slotted the ball into the bottom corner of the goal.
Chippa never looked like finding the equaliser in the latter stages of the game and it was the visitors who scored in stoppage time via Zuma who completed his brace with a powerful shot to secure Chiefs' eighth win of the league campaign.
