
# From festival wristbands to lipliner: this week’s fashion trends

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:00:26+00:00**

Author: **Guardian Staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2019/nov/01/aubergine-cagoules-skye-leighton-fashion-trends)


        What’s hot and what’s not in fashion this week
      
Aubergine rain jackets As worn by the woman who dubbed Boris Johnson a “filthy piece of toerag”. We salute you.
‘Sensual, not sexual’ The goal of new lingerie brand Noelle Wolf. With quotes by Jeanne Moreau on the website, we’re into it.
Skye Leighton Her blue lipstick and oversized shirting is reason enough to watch The Politician.
Brow affection Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s eyebrow technician recommends telling your eyebrows you love them (and throwing out your magnifying mirror).
Festival wristbands Are fashion accessories, judging by the Miu Miu show.
Lip liner Victoria Beckham says she wore “way too much” while in the Spice Girls. Then again, in their immortal words, too much of nothing is just as tough.
Boring buttons Knitwear brand Hades uses weird and wonderful buttons for its cardigans, from tiny cheese slices to a Medusa’s head.
3pm The time at which good outfits go bad, thanks to creases, sweat and blisters, says Man Repeller.
Plain pans The Star Wars x Le Creuset collection has launched – and looks far chicer than it should.
Balm Dotcom The Glossier favourite has been upstaged by the brand’s most recent launch, Futuredew oil-serum. Time to shine.

        
          This article contains affiliate links, which means we may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by any advertiser or commercial initiative. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that third-party cookies will be set. More information.
        
      
