
# Here’s Why The Rage Against The Machine Reunion Matters In 2020

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:02:46+00:00**

Author: **Nathan Jolly**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/rage-against-machine-matter-trump/228045)

A man stands on Wall Street holding a placard that reads ‘Donald J. Trump For President’, with a photo of that orange bulb of a face plastered over the American flag. This is nothing new. Variations of this same scene were plastered across television sets for most of 2016.
However, in this instance, the year is 1999 and the visual is from a Rage Against The Machine video clip. This was pre-bankruptcy, pre-reality TV, and well before the cold reality of Donald J. Trump actually being the American president had set in. What a prescient horrorshow.
Like The Simpsons, who seemingly predicted a Trump presidency back in 2000 (as well as the proliferation of soy-based everything), it would appear that the video for the visceral ‘Sleep Now In The Fire’ was a dire prediction of what was to come.
The truth is that Trump actually launched a presidential campaign in October 1999 and was planning to run for office. He announced it on the talk show Larry King Live, and even launched DonaldJTrump2000.com, which sadly no longer exists. As with his 2016 campaign, it was not taken seriously by the masses, with many speculating it was a ploy to sell copies of his new manifesto The America We Deserve.
It probably was, as he released the book in January 2000, and pulled out of the race the following month. Trump-as-President became a dystopic symbol in the Mike Moore-directed RATM video, and a punchline on an episode of The Simpsons. In both cases, it was meant to be farcical.
Now it’s 2019, and nobody is laughing. The situation is serious, although CNN seems more like a reality TV show than The Apprentice ever did. And it is looking more and more as if Trump will be reelected in 2020.
What we need is action. What we need is an angry mouthpiece with deeply held political views, an anti-authoritative bent, and a fanbase of tens of millions of Americans. Chuck in a guitarist who packs a mean whammy bar, a back catalogue of rebel-rousing songs about injustice, political corruption and financial disparity, and we have the makings of a real revolution. What better place than here? What better time than now?
I’m talking, of course, about the recent news that Rage Against The Machine are reuniting for a run of 2020 dates, including a headlining slot at Coachella.
