
# Paranoid prisoner jailed for slash attack on gangland hitman who murdered Michael Lyons

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:29:04+00:00**

Author: **James Mulholland**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/paranoid-prisoner-jailed-slash-attack-20808399)

A prisoner who repeatedly slashed a notorious gangland hitman has been jailed for five years.
Paul Shields, 33, struck 57-year-old Raymond Anderson’s head and neck with a razor blade in a hall at HMP Shotts in Lanarkshire, on August 22 2018.
The High Court in Edinburgh heard that Shields attacked the gangland killer after hearing rumours from fellow inmates about how Anderson wanted to assault him. 
The man Shields attacked was once handed the longest prison sentence in Scottish legal history. 
He and his co-accused James McDonald, 44, were both jailed for a minimum of 35 years for murdering Michael Lyons,21, at the Applerow Motors garage in Lambhill, Glasgow, on December 6 2006. 
The pair also shot their victim’s cousin Steven Lyons and notorious Paisley based gangster Robert Pickett during the attack.
 
Passing sentence on that occasion, judge Lord Hardie described the attack as a “cold blooded, premeditated execution”.
On Monday, judge Lord Kinclaven heard how Shields had developed mental health problems in the weeks running up to the attack. 
Defence advocate Drew McKenzie said his condition made him determined to confront Anderson. 
However, Lord Kinclaven imposed an extended sentence on Shields. As well as serving a five year prison sentence, Shields will be supervised by the authorities for three years following his release from custody. 
Passing sentence, Lord Kinclaven said: “I have taken everything which has been said by Mr McKenzie into account. I have taken into account your mental health issues and I have taken into account that your have encountered problems throughout your life.
“I have also taken into account that you were fearful in the time leading up to the attack.  
“However, you have pleaded guilty to a very serious offence. Rather than inform the prison authorities about your fears, you chose to procure a weapon and assault the complainer. 
“There is no alternative to the imposition of a custodial sentence. There is no other way of dealing with you.”
Shields, of Coatbridge, Lanarkshire, initially appeared in court last month. Sentence had been deferred for the court to obtain reports. 
On that occasion, prosecutors played CCTV footage of the attack.
 
The judge could see Shields, who was serving a four and a half year stretch for assault and robbery, sneaking up behind Anderson and lashing out at him.
Anderson could be seen then chasing after Shields with prison officers in hot pursuit. 
Shields was then caught. Anderson, of Glasgow, was rushed to hospital for emergency treatment. 
Shields’s then counsel George Gebbie told Lord Kinclaven that his client carried out the attack because he was “anxious”. 
He added: “Mr Shields had heard rumours that Mr Anderson was planning to commit acts of physical violence against him. 
“In a heightened state of anxiety, Mr Shields decided to carry out an attack of his own on Mr Anderson.”
Shields, originally of Coatbridge, Lanarkshire, pleaded guilty to a charge of assaulting Anderson to his severe injury and permanent disfigurement by repeatedly striking him on the head, body and neck with a razor. 
Prosecution lawyer Margaret Barron told the court that that Shields, who is currently at HMP Low Moss in Bishopbriggs, Dunbartonshire, has 11 previous convictions for violence.
Ms Barron also told the court that Anderson was taken to hospital in Wishaw, Lanarkshire, for treatment. 
Ms Barron said: “As a result of the assault, the complainer sustained the following injuries; a 20 centimetre laceration from his right neck to the corner of his right eye. The wound was debrided and sutures inserted. 
“He also sustained a nine centimetre laceration on the left scalp down to his forehead which was cleaned and did not require sutures. 
“He also sustained a five centimetre laceration behind his left ear. The wound was also debrided and sutures inserted. 
“He is permanently scarred as a result of sustaining these injuries.”
On Monday, Shield’s current advocate Drew McKenzie said his client had became “paranoid” in the weeks leading up to the attack. 
Mr McKenzie added: “He has suffered from mental health problems. He became paranoid that he was going to fall victim to an attack and decided to take the matter into his own hands.”
