
# How to watch Rugby World Cup live stream: England vs South Africa

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Martin**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/how-to/internet/watch-rugby-world-cup-live-stream-3681020/)

As with football, the Rugby World Cup takes place every four years. 2019 sees Japan host the tournament in Asia for the first time and you can watch every single match live on TV or online for free. We've got all the details, including the live final.
The Rugby World Cup starts on 20 September with the final set for 2 November in Yokohama. We're now up to the final with two teams left battling it out.
Final:
View all the fixtures here.
Here are the official groups for the tournament:
It's very easy to watch the rugby world cup in the UK as every single match will be exclusively shown on ITV with the team expecting the most open tournament in history.
Presenters Mark Pougatch and Jill Douglas will host coverage with a range of pundits including Jonny Wilkinson, Sam Warburton and Brian O'Driscoll.
If you have a TV then simply switch on to ITV 1, although a selection of four games will be over on ITV 4 so check the schedule.
Those wanting to live stream the games online can do so with the ITV Hub which is available on the web or via the app - Android, iOS and Xbox One.
It's free but if you don't want to watch with ads you can pay £3.99 per month for ITV Hub+ which also includes the ability to watch from abroad and downloads on iOS. There's a 7-day free trial on offer.
As mentioned above, you can sign up to ITV Hub+ to use the service abroad (outside the UK). Alternatively, you can opt for a VPN, which might be cheaper.
A VPN (virtual private network) is software for your computer, phone or tablet that lets you access country-restricted content by 'browsing' from a chosen location.
Click here to check out NordVPN, the service we deem the best in our independent testing. 
