
# After Losing To The Broncos, The Browns’ Season Feels Over

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Manning**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chrismanning/2019/11/03/cleveland-browns-denver-broncos-takeaways/)

Sunday’s game against the Broncos was supposed to be the Browns’ bounce-back game, a chance to start their season anew against an opponent starting someone who had never played an NFL game before. The game was supposed to be a building block toward realizing the potential this team undoubtedly has. It was supposed to be a better version of the Browns’ Week 15 win in Denver last year, where Baker Mayfield threw for two touchdowns in a 17-16 win. Instead, the Browns were the Browns everyone is used to, losing 24-19 to fall to 2-6. The other teams with two wins or fewer at the moment: the Giants, the Buccaneers, the Jets, the Dolphins, the Falcons, the Redskins and the Bengals. That, put another way, means the Browns have one more win than a team – the Dolphins – who are actively tanking. Cleveland is not.
This group also almost avoided Sunday’s loss too. A fourth quarter touchdown pass from Baker Mayfield to Jarvis Landry made it a one-score game. The Browns then got a stop and drove all the way back down deep into Broncos territory. After Nick Chubb was stopped on a third and short, the Browns passed out of shotgun. Their last real play was a Mayfield pass to Landry crossing over the middle that was swatted down along with the Browns’ hopes of winning. Fittingly, Odell Beckham Jr. appeared open over the top, but never got a real look from Mayfield.
Are there positives to this Browns season? Absolutely. Chubb is among the best running backs in the league and is probably underutilized in the Browns’ attack. Finding kicker Austin Seibert and punter Jamie Gillan gives the franchise stability on special teams moving forward. Rookie linebacker Mack Wilson makes enough plays to indicate he might be a player to watch going forward. Myles Garrett remains a clear force on the defensive line.
But there are just far too many questions about this team eight games into the season. For instance: Beckham was targeted six times on Sunday and had five catches. But he still feels like a wasted asset considering his skill level. Mayfield, who didn’t throw an interception for the first time all year, hasn’t been as accurate as he was as a rookie (57.9% after Sunday’s loss this year, down from 63.8% last year). And largely due to injuries, it’s unclear how good of a duo Denzel Ward and Greedy Williams are in the secondary.
The biggest of all, though, has to be Freddie Kitchens. The flair he showed as a play caller last year is gone. The trickery isn’t fooling defenses and there’s no consistent tempo to the offense, no real consistent flow that could really unlock Mayfield and the cache of skill position players John Dorsey has acquired. It is stop and go and doesn’t build on itself. A poor offensive line doesn’t help, but it doesn’t explain everything. To the line’s credit, Mayfield was only sacked twice by the Broncos.
His decision making is also just lacking. He turned away from Chubb and ran Dontrell Hilliard in multiple short yardage situations. (Chubb is a 227-pound bruiser built for smashmouth football; Hilliard is a 202-pound change-of-pace back.) And in everything this team is doing, it lacks structure. That stems from the head coach. One wonders if his time as Browns coach will be limited to less than a season.
After Sunday, the Browns at 2-6 and, per FiveThirtyEight, have an 11% chance of making the playoffs. Getting back tight end David Njoku and adding running Kareem Hunt will add something positive, probably. Wins against the Dolphins, Bengals (twice) and Cardinals could get things back on track and make what seems impossible happen. But there’s no reason to believe it will. That’s what the Broncos game was supposed to be.
