
# Real or not, ‘worms’ video puts Singapore off hot dogs for awhile (Video)

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:28:16+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/news/real-or-not-worms-video-puts-singapore-off-valley-chef-hot-dogs-for-awhile-video/)

A food importer today denied that the little white worms seen wriggling out of chicken hotdogs and into Singaporean’s nightmares were alive at all but rather just “damaged” flakes of bird meat.
After video appearing to show water sluicing off little wormies from dogs purportedly bought at a local supermarket, the subsequent internet freak-out later subsided after the company – whose reputation was on the line – weighed in.
Hong Kong importer Dah Chong Hong told local media that the white objects were simply parts of the hotdogs’ surface that had been damaged from improper temperature storage.
Nevertheless, the Singapore Food Agency is still looking into the matter and has appealed to the public for more information. 
The minute-long clip titled White worms in Valley Chef hotdogs opens with the hotdogs in question soaking in a bowl of water. They do look like they’ve seen better days; it’s a sight to anyone who regularly buys imported food products through a supply chain of imperfect refrigeration. One dog with a particularly rough surface is picked up and shown to the camera. A finger then points to the long white bits – the purported worms – floating in the water. 
The man then drains the water and refills the bowl again before pointing at more white “worms” that appeared to emerge from the ‘dogs.
