
# Beer Cans Feature Photos of Dogs for Adoption

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christina Majaski**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/news/food_booze/beer-cans-feature-photos-of-dogs-for-adoption.html)

Man's best friend. Does that old chestnut apply to dogs, or beer? Perhaps both, as Fargo Brewing Company is now proving. Fur friends looking for their forever home are proudly displayed on the side of beer cans coming from the craft brewery, their cute little smoosh-able faces encouraging adoption.
Teaming up with North Dakota-based animal rescue organization 4 Luv of Dog, Fargo Brewing is proud to launch their “Oneder Dog” lager in support of these wayward pups. The Facebook page detailing the launch of Oneder Dog goes out of its way to make sure that attendees know they can add a furry friend to their family, if they so choose.
“It’s our hope that through this event we can raise a little awareness about these ‘one’derful pooches and hopefully find them homes of their own!”
RELATED: Best Gifts for Dog Lovers
As it turns out, some of these dogs have spent more time than average at the shelter. Long-time 4 Luv of Dog volunteer Jerad Ryan told Food & Wine, “The harder-to-adopt dogs sometimes labeled as ‘Oneder dogs’ have always had a special place in my heart. My first three-and-a-half years volunteering at the shelter I would spend extra time with the dogs that had been there long-term mostly due to the fact they don't do well living with any other dogs. Many of our foster homes already have a resident dog or two [so] it is difficult to find these particular dogs a forever home.”
Enough tugging on the heartstrings — what about the beer? Is it any good? The secret behind the Oneder Dog brew is that it's actually a rebranding of an award-winning original creation from Fargo Brewing. In 2017, their Fargo Original took home the bronze medal at the Great American Beer Festival, having placed in the “Kellerbier or Zwickelbier” category.
For reference, that Great American Beer Festival medal earned by what is now known as the Oneder Dog brew is the first the North Dakota brewery has taken home since 1998, meaning this lager is the best the state has produced in nearly 20 years. If you had any doubts about whether to pick up a six-pack, they should surely be wiped out by now.
Fargo Brewing is making headlines for more than their adoption drive, their commitment to community (and community service) being evident in a recently announced expansion of their facilities. Planning to include a tattoo parlor, barbershop, and artisanal espresso cafe in their new digs, it looks like 610 N. University Drive is going to be the place to be.
Before hitting up a concert (or getting inked) at this postmodern mini-mall of earthly delights, however, you might want to consider taking a four-legged companion with you. Everyone loves a man who shows affection toward animals, particularly if their pooch is famous enough to be plastered all over the local tallboys.

        You Might Also Dig:
      
News Career & Money Dating Entertainment Food & Booze Health Home & Auto Style & Fashion Tech Black Friday Sex Sex Positions Sex Tips Sex Toys & Games Sexual Experiences Sexual Health Dating Dating Advice Dating Experiences Best Online Dating Sites Relationship Advice Grooming Fragrances Hair Shaving Skin Style Accessories Fashion Advice Fashion Trends Shopping Underwear Watches Fitness Health Mental Health Nutrition Weight Loss Workout Gear Hobby Home Tech Toys Travel Work Man Skills Auto Essential Home Random Survival Deals Health Deals Home Deals Style Deals Tech Deals Career & Money Career Money Productivity Self-Improvement Home & Auto Auto Home Parenting Pets Tools Gifting Anniversaries Birthdays Father's Day Holidays Mother's Day Valentine's Day Weddings Reviews Best Subscription Services Classes Meal Kits Products Food & Booze Booze Food Entertainment Celebs Guy Perspective Media Music Sports Travel TV & Film AskMen on Facebook AskMen on Twitter AskMen on Flipboard AskMen on Google News Top Stories 49 Unique Birthday Gifts for Him Best Back Exercises With Dumbbells Best Electric Shavers Best Free Dating Sites Best Sex Positions to Improve Your Sex Life The Best Sex Toys for Couples © 2019 Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AskMen, Become a Better Man, Big Shiny Things, Mantics and guyQ are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. Media Kit Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement IGN PCMag Offers.com Geek ExtremeTech Toolbox SpeedTest
