
# Who WWE superstar Natalya wants to face next after making history at Crown Jewel

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:14:38+00:00**

Author: **John Isherwood**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/wrestling/who-wwe-superstar-natalya-wants-20829221)

WWE made history by holding the first women's match to be contested in Saudi Arabia at Crown Jewel.
One of the cornerstones of the company's 'Women's Evolution', Natalya, and rising star Lacey Evans wrestled in a highly emotional bout.
The veteran Natalya picked up the win with a Sharpshooter submission in front of some 40,000 fans at the King Abdullah Sports Arena.
Reflecting on the match, the 37-year-old, real name Natalie Neidhart-Wilson, spoke to Mirror Sport's John Isherwood about how it felt to be part of real change.
And the Canadian star discussed Survivor Series, the NXT women's WarGames showdown, and just who from NXT UK she'd love to meet in the squared circle.
It was one of the most incredible and transcending experiences of my life. To know that we were doing something so big and to be part of this change that was happening in Saudi Arabia, to be the first women to compete in this wrestling match that they got to be a part of... this moment in time with me and Lacey Evans was greater than her, greater me, greater than WWE, it was about real change in the world.
 
This will never be duplicated, there will never be anything like that first moment when a stadium in Saudi Arabia watched two women compete. The crowd were so excited, they were ready, the world was ready, it was a perfect culmination of readiness. People were so ready.
I've never felt so embraced by a culture in my entire life. It made me feel like I was changing the world and it was incredibly fulfilling.
You know Lacey has grown on me so much, she's really gained my respect. Competing against her in Saudi Arabia, I have a totally new respect for her.
In WWE we wear many different faces. Sometimes we're bad, sometimes we're good, sometimes we're going to a children's hospital and sometimes we're in the ring telling stories. Lacey has grown so much.
 
To get to work with her, tell that story together and see her surrender all emotions in the ring, showed me that Lacey has what it takes to be a real performer and connect with real emotion. What we do isn't all headlocks and dropkicks, it's about connecting and I really couldn't be more proud of Lacey.
It's nice to be able to do for Lacey what I did for Charlotte coming up. I love being able to give back and it's how we all pay it forward.
I thought that was so awesome. I really love what the girls in NXT are doing. I think Shayna [Baszler] is awesome, Tegan Nox is amazing, I think Rhea [Ripley] is such a star, I love what Candice [LeRae] is doing. There's so many girls down there who are so talented.
With WarGames coming up, it's a really exciting time. Those girls in NXT are pioneers and with WarGames coming up, it's another thing that takes takes the women in another direction.
Ooh that would be hard to pick. I would definitely pick Charlotte Flair because she's pretty unbreakable. I'd have to choose Becky Lynch too and I wouldn't want to leave Asuka out because she is one of the best women's wrestlers in the world.
Gosh, there's so many brilliant girls, actually now I'm thinking about it, I'd have to bring Beth Phoenix along.
Wrestling Travel is the first company of its kind in the UK - set up by WWE fans for WWE fans.
It creates bespoke packages for those dreaming of going to WWE WrestleMania, Money in the Bank, SummerSlam, Survivor Series or Royal Rumble, major AEW events, and NJPW's yearly extravaganza, Wrestle Kingdom.
Wrestling Travel offers flights, transfers, hotels and event tickets - providing hassle-free, unforgettable experiences - and is ABTA and ATOL bonded through its award-winning parent company Invasion Camp Group.
For more information visit Wrestling Travel, contact info@wrestlingtravel.org, call 0161 806 1444, or follow Wrestling Travel on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram
After what we saw on SmackDown you never know what's going to happen. Whether Shayna will show up or whatever. I think the Raw women's roster is stacked though. Charlotte, Becky, Asuka, Kairi Sane, The IIconics, Liv Morgan, Sarah Logan... we have this amazing, unique roster and things are going to be exciting going into Survivor Series with so many different match-ups and possibilities thanks to all three rosters. There's so much talent.
Actually if you look at NXT UK, there's an incredible women's roster there too. So that's four strong rosters we've got. There's so many women I want to wrestle that I haven't wrestled before. I want to wrestle Bianca Belair, I want to wrestle Rhea Ripley and Toni Storm.
You know, I have never had a singles match with Bayley. There's so much more I want to do. There's so many more girls I want to make memories with like I did with Lacey Evans.

        WWE is touring the UK and Ireland this week with shows in Brighton, Manchester, Leeds, Aberdeen, Dublin and Glasgow.
      

        Tickets are available now, at www.bookingsdirect.com .
      
