
# Maple Leafs’ Mike Babcock And His $40 Million Quartet Playing Out Of Tune

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Curtis Rush**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/curtisrush/2019/11/02/maple-leafs-mike-babcock-and-his-40-million-quartet-playing-out-of-tune/)

This is the way it goes in Toronto, where hockey is treated like a religion. There are a lot of prayers to be said today for this city’s Maple Leafs.As the calendar turned to November, Toronto was not even in a wildcard playoff position.
“We’re 14 games in, and the world’s like crashing down on us,” said the face of the franchise, Auston Matthews, who had earlier called out his own teammates after a 4-2 loss to the Boston Bruins.
The Leafs were a mediocre 6-5-3 in October, which had them ranked in the middle of the 31-team league. They had scored 49 goals and allowed 49 goals for a zero goals differential.
Last year, after 14 games, the Leafs were among the best teams with a 9-5 record, having scored 48 and given up only 39 goals.
When you look at the offense this season, you saw good signs. The Leafs ranked No. 4 overall in goals scored. But near the bottom of the pack in goals given up.
Despite the credible offense, the millionaire quartet is not playing up to its $40 million annual contract value. Not even close.
With October in the books, fans are on edge. It hasn’t been a bad month by most expectations. But these are not ordinary expectations.
When the Leafs signed Matthews, John Tavares, William Nylander and Mitch Marner to deals worth over $40 million in average annual value, the expectations soared with the financial packages.
So far, they have not delivered. They are being paid like superstars, but they are playing like average NHL players.
Matthews, it can be argued, has indeed played up to his expectations. He scored 11 goals in the month of October, although he was lagging in assists with only five. But the three others had only three goals each, although Tavares was injured and played only eight games last month.
But look at this: While Matthews is on pace for 64 goals this season, Marner and Nylander are on pace for 18 and Tavares is on pace for 30. That amounts to 130 goals for four of them, if they keep this pace up.
Or to put this another way: The Leafs could end up paying these four players over $300,00 per goal scored this season. That is an outrageous cost.
Trevor Moore, who has a cap hit of only $775,000, had the same number of goals as Nylander, Marner and Tavares.
With their top-heavy payroll, the Leafs should be contending for a Stanley Cup, if not this year, then next year, and fans want to see progress toward that status. To many, it appears the team has regressed.
The Leafs superstars are being paid for future delivery. So far, all they’ve shown is the ability to get Toronto into the playoffs for three straight seasons. The hard truth is the Leafs haven’t gotten out of the first round in coach Mike Babcock’s tenure.
Babcock is also under enormous pressure. When he came here on his own rich, $50 million, eight-year deal in 2015, the team managed expectations well. Fans were warned to expect pain, and the Leafs made good on their promise by finishing last in the league.
But slowly, president Brendan Shanahan’s plan started to pay off and they got lucky by winning the draft lottery and selected Matthews with that No. 1 pick in 2016.
Babcock came here with impeccable credentials. He had won a Stanley Cup in 2008 with the Detroit Red Wings, and coached Team Canada to back-to-back Olympic gold medals. For a time, he was regarded as the smartest coach in hockey. That reputation is being put to the test.
For the first time in his storied career, blemishes are showing and some fans are suggesting he should be fired because, they argue, he can’t seem to get this team to play at a higher level.
But Babcock has his defenders as well. The Athletic’s James Mirtle wrote a piece on Saturday in which he suggested the Leafs should not fire Babcock. At least not yet.
“I don’t think so. And definitely not now,” Mirtle wrote, presenting his case that included a bad schedule, inconsistent goaltending and other factors for the Leafs’ lousy play to open the season.
On the outside, it appears the weight of the $10.89 million (average annual value) contract that Marner signed before the season is weighing on him. Of the four highest-paid forwards, he is the one who is underperforming the most, although he continues to be a great passer and playmaker.
If anything, time is on the Leafs side. There are many months ahead to get this right. And all they have to do is look at the Stanley Cup champion St. Louis Blues, who were dead last in the league last January before turning their season around.
With all the firepower the Leafs have, Toronto has the ability to put together a long winning streak. But while time is on their side, the pressure will continue mounting through November and into December if they don’t start making some magic happen.
The Leafs will always be judged against their arch-rival, the Boston Bruins, who closed October with a 9-1-2 record – five points clear of the Leafs.
And no one needs to remind Toronto fans that the Bruins’ top four forwards are making half as much as the Leafs’ four superstar forwards.
The Bruins are getting great value for their money. The Leafs are not. Until that evens out, Toronto’s fanbase will continue to call out their team’s superstars and their coach.
It’s one of the tough consequences of young players being paid not for what they’ve done, but for what they’re projected to do.
