
# Frozen raspberries sold at Aldi recalled for potential Hepatitis A contamination

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:24:10+00:00**

Author: **Alex Hider**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/news/national/frozen-raspberries-sold-at-aldi-recalled-for-potential-hepatitis-a-contamination)

A recall has been issued for bags of frozen raspberries and mixed berries that were sold at Aldi and Raley's Supermarket due to a possible Hepatitis A contamination.
According to Consumer Reports, the berries were sold in Alabama, California, Georgia, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, North Carolina, New York, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and West Virginia.
According to the Food and Drug Administration, the recall covers 12 oz. bags of raspberries and 16 oz.bags of mixed berries. All of the bags have expiration dates in summer of 2021. See more information about the bags covered in the recall below.
Hepatitis A can either be a short-term illness or a long and severe illness. It usually manifests itself between two to seven weeks after eating infected foods.
Symptoms of Hepatitis A infection include fever, headache, fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, jaundice, dark urine or pale stool. In some cases, people with certain pre-existing conditions could suffer from liver failure.
Anyone who has consumed the infected product should consult a healthcare provider. Consumers who purchased the raspberries can contact Wawona Frozen Foods at 866-913-0667 or visit their website at www.wawona.com .

        Aldi
      

        Raley's
      

        Alex Hider is a writer for the E.W. Scripps National Desk. Follow him on Twitter @alexhider.
      
