
# Warm tributes to former St Brigid's parish priest Mgr Ambrose Macaulay

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/warm-tributes-to-former-st-brigid-s-parish-priest-mgr-ambrose-macaulay-1757684/)

WARM tributes have been paid to Monsignor Ambrose Macaulay, the former parish priest of St Brigid's in south Belfast, who has died suddenly aged 85.
Known to his friends as Father Ambrose, the senior cleric was born in Cushendall, Co Antrim but was most closely associated with the building of the new St Brigid's Church on Windsor Avenue in Belfast in the mid-1990s, a much larger place of worship than its predecessor, reflecting the area's rapidly expanding Catholic population.
A special Mass celebrating the 25th anniversary of its dedication is due to take place next week.
Monsignor Ambrose attended St Malachy’s College in north Belfast, beginning his philosophical studies for the priesthood at Queen’s University before continuing his theological training in Rome.
He completed a Licence in Theology at the Pontifical Lateran University in 1960 and a Doctorate in Ecclesiastical History at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome in 1963.
He returned to the Down & Connor Diocese and was appointed chaplain to the Cross and Passion Sisters and Forster Green Hospital, Belfast.
Mgr Ambrose was warden of Kerr Hall until 1970 when he was appointed as chaplain to Queen’s University Belfast.
In 1985, he was appointed as parish priest of St Anthony’s, Willowfield in east Belfast as well as diocesan historian.
He became parish priest of St Brigid's in 1989, where he remained until his retirement in 2010 and received the Prelate of Honour with the title monsignor in June 1994.
A renowned ecclesiastical historian, who wore his distinction lightly, he was a keen GAA fan and was president of the Queen's University Gaelic Football Club Past Members Union for more than 50 years.
Former West Belfast MP Joe Hendron, a long-standing parishioner of St Brigid's and a friend of Mgr Ambrose, last night described the late priest as a "hugely popular figure".
"Fr Ambrose, as everybody called him, was an absolute gentleman and a lovely human being," he said.
"You were struck by his modesty and humility but also by his insights and extensive intellect. He will be sadly missed by all those in his old parish."
Former Irish News editor Martin O'Brien, who was married by Mgr Ambrose, also remembered a "great pastor and a dear friend".
"He was a particularly devoted, selfless pastor to the dying and their families," he said.
"I have lost a treasured and much loved family friend. He was a genuinely humble man."
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
