
# Hyderabad not under more pressure than us, says Eelco Schattorie

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:52:12+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/01/hyderabad-not-under-more-pressure-than-us-says-eelco-schattorie?utm_medium=rss)


        Kerala Blasters head coach Eelco Schattorie has refused the suggestions that the travelling team, Hyderabad FC, will be under more pressure than his team when the sides lock horns on Saturday. The Dutch coach does not believe there is anything called a psychological edge in football.
      
Kerala Blasters head coach Eelco Schattorie has refused the suggestions that the travelling team, Hyderabad FC, will be under more pressure than his team when they meet on Saturday. The Yellow Army has three points from two matches whereas Phil Brown's team has put up a dismal show and lost their first two games having conceded eight goals already.
"We were unlucky to lose the last match. It was a painful loss. It was not that Mumbai was much better than us. We should have taken at least a point. On the other hand, Hyderabad are travelling here after a defeat to Jamshedpur. So both teams are hungry for three points. So hope it will be an awesome match," Schattorie said to Goal.com. 
"In football, there's nothing called a psychological edge. These are cliches. There will be pressure on the home team and there are few things for us which you cannot reveal but must process at the back. There are issues when you have lost a game but I don't think we have an advantage," he added. 
He spared a thought for his opponents and their injury list but added that he also has a similar issue and cannot put up his “strongest possible unit” yet. The Dutch coach asked the supporters to remain patient as he works on getting his team to win games on a consistent basis and reassured that fan favourite Sahal Abdul Samad, who has not started a match this season, will get his chance.
"I will ask the supporters to be patient. It is great to have them behind us. I guarantee that all players who will be playing tomorrow will give their 100%. I am very happy with Sahal. The previous year was his first in ISL. He needs to grow.
"He is an amazingly strong player. I will always give him a chance. It is not just about giving two good passes or giving four-five good balls. Everywhere in the world and in India, you find people are hyping up some players. You should give him time to develop and I am very happy with him," he concluded.
