
# Make-up artist sends video of herself as a pig to new boss instead of boyfriend

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:35:20+00:00**

Author: **Bethan Sexton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/make-up-artist-sends-video-20793887)

A make up artist sent a video of herself as an animated pig begging her boyfriend to get a Chinese takeaway to her boss who she had known for just two days.
Issie Carmody, 22, was "mortified" when she realised her mistake, which has since been seen by thousands.
Issie, from Corsham, Wilts, shared the "idiotic" clip on social media after her boss saw the funny side.
She uses an app to turn her face into that of a pig and then repeats the word "Chinese" in a variety of voices.
"Guys I’m actually f ******  mortified," she says.
"I recently got a new manager at my work, and I've known her for two days!"
Referring to the app she used, Issie added: "I wanted to send my boyfriend an Animoji of me as a pig saying that I wanted a Chinese.
"Well, I’ve sent it to my new manager and it’s the most idiotic video I have ever created."
 
In the 18 second clip, Issie can be heard repeating the word "Chinese" in various funny voices.
As she speaks, an animated pig graphic is seen mimicking her facial expressions.
At the end of the clip she can be seen sticking her tongue out, which is copied by the animated pig.
Issie realised instantly what she had done and hastily followed the message with a series of texts apologising to her new boss.
She said: "Omg I'm so sorry that was meant for my boyfriend. I'm so sorry."
Luckily, her boss saw the funny side and replied: "I hope he gets you one."
 
She later posted a triumphant photo of herself with her meal with the caption: "Guess who got her Chinese finally."
"I realised almost instantly that I made the mistake," Issie said looking back.
"I was already talking to my boss about work so the conversation was already up.
"I sent it and had a bad feeling in my gut that I had done something wrong.
"Looking up I saw my boss's name and that’s when I realised I made a huge mistake.
"My heart and stomach dropped! I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry.
"My boss was very understanding and said that it made her and her husband laugh a lot!"
A number of people who saw the clip on social media saw the funny side.
Ash Garbutt responded: "Proper laughed out loud at that, sending it to the new boss."
Nicole Alice said: "I must have watched this about 20 times this morning hahaha I love it! Chinese!"
And Rob Clark added: "That is quality."
