
# Paul Heckingbottom reveals Bobby Madden chat as Hibs boss slams offside decision

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:43:19+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Young, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/graeme-young/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/paul-heckingbottom-reveals-bobby-madden-20798861)

Hibs boss Paul Heckingbottom insists his side aren't getting any luck as he bemoaned the lack of an offside flag for Celtic's second goal.
Odsonne Edouard was offside but assistant Douglas Ross failed to raise his flag and Callum McGregor scored after being set up by the Frenchman.
That frustrated the Hibs boss as it put Celtic two in front after just 20 minutes and he revealed he spoke to Bobby Madden at half time to ask for a break.
Ross also wrongly disallowed a goal when Hibs played Elgin in the group stage of the competition and Heckingbottom isn't impressed.
He said: "The same linesman as Elgin as well.
"We're used to it now. I said to Bobby (Madden) coming out at half time, 'come on give us a break'
"You know I don't sit here and moan about that but that is fact, we are getting them all the time.
"The second one today, three chalked off, two red cards we are getting them all the time.
"As much as we focus on ourselves to do our bit there should be more scrutiny, more accountability and I don't think there is.
"It always costs us. It could have been 1-1, so it has definitely contributed, it would be nice if they could get them right all the time.
"The offside one is a black and white one."
Pressure is building on Heckingbottom supporters aiming abuse at the Easter Road gaffer as their side were beaten.
But the former Barnsley manager insists he can turn things around.
He said: "Yes. 100 per cent. 
"It's out of my control, I certainly won't be involved in the decision on my own future. 
"All we keep doing is keep working and keep pushing. We have to deal with out there's no point sulking about it."
 
