
# Get 3 Months Of Audible For $21 (53% Off)

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:56:37+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-audible-deal-sale.html)

Right now, Audible is running a special deal for those that have never used Audible before. You can get your first three months for $6.95 each month. That comes out to a little less than $21 – $20.85 to be exact.
That's about the price of a month and a half of Audible, normally, which makes this a really great time to check out Audible. It's normally $14.95 per month.
Audible is an audiobook service that is owned by Amazon. It allows you to stream audiobooks virtually anywhere. As there are apps for Android, iOS, Fire TV, Fire Tablets, Android Auto and so much more. So whether you are in the care, on the bus or flying across the country, you can listen to your audiobooks.
Advertisement
With Audible, you get a free credit each month for a book. Now these can be banked, so you don't need to use them every single month. But even with just a single credit, this is still much cheaper than buying each book outright. As those can sometimes cost up to $20 or more.
Users also get the choice of two Audible Originals each month. So you are essentially getting three audiobooks each month for just $6.95. Audible Originals are from a hand-picked group of audiobooks, which do tend to change from time to time. So you're not stuck with the same small group of hand-picked Audible Originals, thankfully.
Those that are stuck in long commutes everyday, can really take advantage of Audible and listen to plenty of books every month.
Advertisement
You can sign up for your three months of Audible for $6.95, here. This deal isn't going to last long, so now is definitely the time to sign up. Remember that if you don't want to pay the $14.95 after the first three months, to remind yourself to cancel. Otherwise, it will auto-renew at that $14.95 per month rate. So keep that in mind.

        Sign Up For Audible - Amazon
      
