
# Reports | Manchester United add Richarlison to January shortlist

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:55:48+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/reports-manchester-united-add-richarlison-to-january-shortlist?utm_medium=rss)


        Manchester United have added Richarlison to their January transfer shortlist with Emre Can, Erling Braut Haaland, and Mario Mandzukic also on the list. The Red Devils are looking for reinforcements in the winter transfer window but Solskjaer has insisted that the club will not make short-term moves.
      
Despite losing Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez during the summer window, Manchester United failed to bring in reinforcements to help out Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial. Instead, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer opted to depend on the two men and brought up Mason Greenwood and Tahith Chong from the youth academy in an experiment that has had various levels of success.
But with the club looking to get their season back on track, the Evening Standard has reported that the Red Devils have added Richarlison to their January shortlist. The Everton forward joins Erling Braut Haaland, long-term target Moussa Dembele and Mario Mandzukic after Manchester United missed out on the Croatian in the summer. However, the Brazilian tops the list as the Standard further reported that the club is looking for a Premier League proven forward.
Yet the 22-year-old isn’t the only name on the shortlist with Emre Can and James Maddison also making an appearance reports further added. The former Liverpool man is a higher priority with his status at Juventus under Maurizio Sarri making him an easier target to chase after. Maddison is also high on the list, the Standard went on to report, but Leicester City’s push for a top-four spot means that a January move would be off the cards.
