
# Atco Blue Flame Kitchen: Getting Back to Our Roots

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:13+00:00**

Author: **ATCO Blue Flame Kitchen**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/food/recipes/atco-blue-flame-kitchen-getting-back-to-our-roots)

As Canadians, it’s easy to lament our long winters and short growing season. Instead, why not celebrate the bounty of hardy root vegetables?
Roasting vegetables at a high heat helps to caramelize their natural sugars. Our Roasted Root Vegetables recipe dresses some of our favourite root vegetables in a maple-balsamic-mustard glaze to enhance the vegetables’ earthy sweetness and add some extra zing.
Parsnips may simply look like white carrots, but they’re so much more. Our Ginger Parsnip Soup highlights the unique peppery flavour of the vegetable, layering on sweetness from carrots, onions, honey, and maple syrup. Topped with a dollop of crème fraîche, this rich soup is sure to warm you up.
Our Mediterranean Potatoes are like a warm potato salad, pairing the hearty tuber with the colours and flavours of the Mediterranean. Serve this tasty side dish with roast chicken, lamb, or pork for a complete meal.
1/4 cup canola oil
2 tbsp balsamic vinegar
2 tbsp maple syrup
2 tbsp whole grain mustard
1 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp freshly ground pepper
3 1/2 cups halved trimmed radishes (about 1 lb)
3 cups sliced carrots (1 inch)
3 cups cubed peeled sweet potatoes (1 inch)
2 cups cubed parsnips (1 inch)
2 cups cubed peeled rutabaga (1 inch)
2 cups chopped red onions
Preheat oven to 425°F.
Whisk together oil, vinegar, maple syrup, mustard, salt and pepper until blended.
Combine radishes, carrots, sweet potatoes, parsnips, rutabaga and red onions in a large bowl.
Add oil mixture and toss until vegetables are coated.
Transfer vegetable mixture to a greased large roasting pan.
Bake, uncovered, stirring once, for 45 minutes or until vegetables are tender and lightly browned.  Serves 10.
1 tbsp canola oil
2/3 cup finely chopped fresh ginger
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 cups chopped parsnips
3 cups sliced carrots
1 3/4 cups chopped onions
10 sprigs fresh thyme, tied together with butcher’s twine
6 cups chicken broth
2 tbsp liquid honey
1 1/2 cups whipping cream
3 tbsp maple syrup
3 tbsp salted butter
Salt and freshly ground pepper
Crème fraiche
Heat oil in a Dutch oven over medium-low heat. Add ginger and garlic; sauté for 2 minutes. Add parsnips, carrots, onions and thyme; sauté until onions are softened, about 7 minutes. Add broth and honey; stir to combine.  Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, stirring occasionally, until parsnips and carrots are tender, about 40 minutes. Remove from heat. Remove and discard thyme. Using a hand blender, purée mixture until smooth. Stir in cream, maple syrup and butter, stirring until butter is melted. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve immediately topped with a dollop of crème fraîche. Serves 8 as a starter.
1/2 cup (125 mL) chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, crushed
1 tbsp (15 mL) olive oil
1 cup (250 mL) chopped seeded Roma tomatoes
2 cups (500 mL) cubed peeled baking potatoes
1 red bell pepper, cut into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces
1 yellow bell pepper, cut into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces
1 orange bell pepper, cut into 1 inch (2.5 cm) pieces
1/4 tsp (1 mL) salt
1/4 tsp (1 mL) freshly ground pepper
1 1/4 cups (300 mL) chicken stock
1/2 tsp (2 mL) basil, crumbled
2 tbsp (25 mL) chopped fresh parsley
1/4 cup (50 mL) sliced ripe olives
In a medium saucepan, sauté onion and garlic in oil over medium heat for 2 minutes. Add tomato and cook 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Stir in next 7 ingredients (potatoes through stock); bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until potatoes are tender and most of liquid is absorbed. Stir in basil, parsley and olives. Serves 6.

        ATCO Blue Flame Kitchen’s column on healthy eating for busy families runs Wednesdays in the Calgary Herald’s food section. For tips on cooking, food safety or household matters, call 1-877-420-9090 toll-free, email bfkanswerline@atco.com or chat with us live online at ATCOBlueFlameKitchen.com.
      
