
# See How Fast These Celebs Ran the 2019 NYC Marathon

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Gabrielle Hondorp**

Original: [Runner&#39;s World](https://www.runnersworld.com/news/g29553191/celebrities-running-nyc-marathon-2019/)

This year, the NYC marathon celebrated its 49th anniversary. More than 50,000 runners laced up to take on the iconic course from Staten Island to Central Park on Sunday, November 3.
Some of the faces in the crowd, though, may be a little more recognizable than others. Like in past years, there will be a number of famous folks who will be running the race, too. Here, the celebs who crushed NYC, starting with the fastest times.

        [From training tips, to fueling strategies, to improving the mind-body connection, the Runner’s World 2020 Calendar will help you run your best all year long.]
      
In 2018, Randall was the first American woman to win a medal (gold) in cross-country skiing for the United States. A month later, she was diagnosed with breast cancer, which she has since beat. Now, she is ready for her first marathon—she is running for AKTIV Against Cancer, a nonprofit that promotes an active lifestyle for kids with cancer. On October 20, she ran a speedy tune-up 13.1 at the Okanagan Half with a time of 1:23. She led all celebs with a 2:55:12.
The NASCAR driver is no stranger to racing, having taken on a half marathon before. Kenseth is actually one of many drivers in the sport who run. He finished in 3:11:33.
Former Giants cornerback Jason Sehorn laced up for NYC as his first 26-miler, according to the local ABC affiliate. He ran to raise money for the Foundation for Tomorrow, a foundation started by his wife, Meghann, to help orphaned and vulnerable children in Tanzania with education. He finished in 3:19:26.
The former host and producer of MTV’s Catfish, Schulman is back for his third NYC Marathon in 2019 to fundraise for NYRR Team for Kids.He finished in 3:25:25.
The celebrity chef featured on Good Morning America, ABC’s The Chew, and the Food Network is supporting City Harvest, which works to end hunger in NYC communities. In his Instagram post, he noted he has changed his diet to fuel his training, making sure to eat more carbs and micronutrients. He finished in 3:52:42.
The actor known for his role in such shows as House of Cards and Boardwalk Empire will run on behalf of Adam Driver’s charity, Arts in the Armed Forces. He finished in 3:54:08.
The Bachelorette star and New York Times best-selling author is running to support Girls on the Run and NYRR Team for Kids. Dorfman, who told Page Six she used to “despise” running before she started training for 26.2, has tweaked her workout routine to include less weights and more runs in preparation. She finished in 3:56:17.
The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel actor ran for Adam Driver’s charity, Arts in the Armed Forces. He finished in 4:05:01.
Tucker will be running alongside Sparks and Kirby for her husband Adam Driver’s charity, Arts in the Armed Forces. She finished in 4:10:42.
The Broadway star in no stranger to big stages in New York City. Her current role is in Anastasia, but she is stepping off stage on Sunday to run and sing the National Anthem before the gun goes off. She finished in 4:10:52.
The co-host of ABC’s Good Morning America is running to fundraise for NYRR Team for Kids, which raises money for NYRR youth programs. It will be her first time running NYC.
“Running has been my therapy, my meditation, my escape for the past 25 years,” she told ABC News. She finished in 4:16:29.
Would it be an NYC Marathon without the former Giants running back? He is an avid runner in the city and is racing to fundraise for NYRR Team for Kids. He finished in 4:18:24.
Another Olympian running this year, Ritzel—who won gold for rowing in 2012—is taking on New York to support the Women’s Sports Foundation. She finished in 4:30:15.
The chef and TV personality of Bravo’s Top Chef is a NYC Marathon regular. This will be his sixth consecutive 26.2 through the five boroughs. He finished in 4:37:38.
The season 15 star of The Bachelorette made headlines after the show when he started a running group in New York City. Now, after taking on the Chicago Marathon in October, running NYC less than a month later for ABC Food Tours. He finished in 4:39:54.
Comedian Jon Glaser, who’s best known as a writer for shows like Late Night With Conan O’Brien and for his reality show Jon Glaser Loves Gear, is lacing up to take on NYC once again this year. He’ll be running to raise money for Paul Newman’s charity, the Hole in the Wall Gang Camp, which helps provide camp experiences for seriously ill children at no cost. He finished in 4:44:47.
Known for her role as Crazy Eyes in Orange Is the New Black, Aduba is running for Stand Up to Cancer which raises money for cancer treatment and education. Along with running NYC previously, Aduba has also finished Boston in the past, too. She finished in 7:40:04.
