
# Bluesound Offers Custom Remote For All Its BluOS Players

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Sparrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marksparrow/2019/11/02/bluesound-offers-custom-remote-for-all-its-bluos-players/)

Following requests from customers and some feedback from reviewers, the Canadian audio company Bluesound, designers of the popular Node range of wireless music streaming players and BluOS system, has announced its first remote control for the Node 2 and Node 2i line of products as well as the NAD Masters M10 BluOS streaming amplifier.  The RC1 will be available as an optional accessory and will furnish users of Gen 2 and Gen 2i products access to the most commonly used playback controls like track forward and backward, volume up and down, play and pause, as well as up to 10 custom, presets for favorite internet stations, playlists or streaming services. There's also a choice of up to eight different IR channels to avoid clashes with other remote-controlled devices.
Unlike other IR remote controls that require programming and set-up, the RC1 works straight out of the box unless users want to assign functions to the two programmable buttons on the device. 
The RC1 also works with BluOS Enabled products from sister brand, NAD Electronics, including the Masters M50.2 Digital Music Player, Masters M10 BluOS Streaming Amplifier, C 658 BluOS Streaming DAC (coming soon), and several other products from the Custom Install line. BluOS Enabled products are those with BluOS built-in, while BluOS Ready products are those with BluOS added through NAD Electronics’ future-proof Modular Design Concept (MDC). 
Although the Bluesound products have a flexible IR remote learning function, enabling almost any remote compatible with BluOS players, customers said they wanted a remote that was "ready to go". Other users said they wanted to use a remote instead of their smartphones for basic functions like volume, mute or skipping tracks.
Pricing and availability: The new Bluesound’s RC1 remote will be available in a matte black from the start of December, just in time for the Christmas shopping season – and at a relatively affordable price of US$59 / CA$79 / £49 / €69 – from specialty and online retailers around the world. 
