
# The best drone deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Henry Burrell**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/gadget/best-drone-deals-3665963/)

Drones are a lot of fun to fly whether you’re spending £50 or £2,000 on one. It’s always nice to save a bit of money though, especially if you're buying an expensive drone since a decent discount could mean hundreds of pounds off.
Drones are usually categorized into toy drones, camera drones and racing drones – all pretty self-explanatory. Decide what you want to do with one before you buy, and read our expert buying advice.
Bear in mind that you'll have to register any drone weighing more than 250g in the UK from 30 November.

        Parrot Anafi Compact 4K HDR Camera DroneFrom: WEXWas: £629Now: £539  (£90 off) View Deal
      

        Ryze TelloFrom: AmazonWas: £99Now: £89  (10% off) View Deal
      

        DJI Mavic Pro Platinum Drone & Accessories BundleFrom: Drones DirectWas: £1,098Now: £849  (£250 off) View Deal
      

        Parrot Bebop 2 DroneFrom: AmazonWas: £449.99Now: £366.71  (£83.78 off) View Deal
      
DJI Mavic AirFrom: ebayWas: £769Now: £569.99  (£199.01 off) View Deal< >
Retailers such as Argos, Currys PC World and MenKind, have discounted drones of all shapes and sizes in the past, and you can usually trust that at least one of them will be offering some discounts at any given time. Online retailers such as DronesDirect, Banggood and Gearbest are other places that often have drones on discount as well.
Amazon also runs regular sales, with new deals every day and thousands of Lightning Deals every hour. We'd recommend signing up to its 30 day free trial of Amazon Prime now. You'll then get access to Lightning Deals 30 minutes early as well as free next day delivery.

        From: WEXWas: £629Now: £539  (£90 off) View Deal
      
The Anafi is a 4K drone and you can currently save £90. Read our Parrot Anafi review.

        From: AmazonWas: £99Now: £89  (10% off) View Deal
      
The Ryze Tello is powered by DJI technology and it's great as a first drone and shooting quick video clips with EZ Shots as well as performing aerial stunts.

        From: Drones DirectWas: £1,098Now: £849  (£250 off) View Deal
      
It may still cost a lot, but see why the Mavic Pro is a good deal in our review. This deal includes the extra accessories from the Fly More Combo edition.

        From: AmazonWas: £449.99Now: £366.71  (£83.78 off) View Deal
      
The Bebop 2, should you just want the barebones drone rather than the Power kit, is good value at this price.

        From: ebayWas: £769Now: £569.99  (£199.01 off) View Deal
      
The Mavic Air is one of the best consumer drones you can buy. This deal is for a refurbished model, and it comes with only a three-month warranty. It's not a deal for everyone, but with no deals around at the moment for new Mavic Airs, this is one way to save a decent chunk.
Read our Mavic Air review.
