
# Arteta will be allowed to join Arsenal

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:02:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/arteta-will-be-allowed-to-join-arsenal-20191105)

Cape Town - Manchester City assistant manager Mikel Arteta will be allowed to leave the club to join Arsenal in case they approach him, according to reports.
The 37-year-old is being linked again with the top job at the Emirates Stadium, having lost out to Unai Emery last summer in the final selection process.
The Gunners' boss, however, is coming under severe pressure after an underwhelming opening few months to the campaign, with the north Londoners already six points off fourth-placed Chelsea in the Premier League table.
Home supporters certainly voiced their displeasure following last Saturday's disappointing 1-1 draw against Wolverhampton Wanderers, a game in which they were largely dominated by the visitors.
Reports claim Emery now has four games to turn things around or the club’s board will decide to show the former Paris Saint-Germain coach the door, just 17 months into his tenure.
It is understood from sources at the Etihad that Arsenal's admiration for Arteta remains high, having initially made him a frontrunner to succeed former boss Arsene Wenger.
The Spaniard turned down the managerial role at Newcastle United this summer, preferring to continue his footballing education alongside Pep Guardiola.
City have made it clear all along to Arteta that they value his contribution since his arrival in 2016, earning an impressive reputation as a result.
The overriding message, though, is they would never dream of standing in the way of the former Glasgow Rangers, Everton and Arsenal midfielder, if he wants to become his own main man, elsewhere.
There have been suggestions Arteta could one day replace Guardiola at City, although it's believed the club's powerbrokers don't envisage such a scenario at such an early stage into his coaching career.

        
          - TeamTalk Media
        
      
