
# LeBoldus Golden Suns capture Schwann Conference title

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:03:24+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/football/leboldus-golden-suns-capture-schwann-conference-title)

Ryker Frank rushed for 218 yards and three touchdowns to power the LeBoldus Golden Suns to a 22-8 victory over the Riffel Royals in the Regina Intercollegiate Football League’s Schwann Conference final on Friday.
LeBoldus won a city football title for the first time since 2016, when the Golden Suns captured Schwann Conference and Saskatchewan High Schools Athletic Association championships for the fifth consecutive year.
LeBoldus advanced to the SHSAA 6A final against the Holy Cross Crusaders, who defeated the St. Joseph Guardians 33-9 in Friday night’s Saskatoon final.
The provincial final is set for Nov. 9, 1 p.m., at Mosaic Stadium.
On Friday, LeBoldus quarterback Christian Fischer completed 12 of 19 passes for 160 yards. The Golden Suns’ top receiver, Jerry Wiebe, had four receptions for 79 yards.
Kaeden Brennan paced the LeBoldus defence with 10 1/2 tackles.
Riffel’s Hunter Bohay rushed 24 times for 172 yards and one touchdown.
In a SHSAA 5A semi-final on Saturday, the host Saskatoon Bishop Mahoney Saints defeated the Balgonie Greenall Griffins 14-2. Greenall won the RIFL’s Stewart Conference title.
The Yorkton Regional Raiders defeated the Swift Current Colts 31-17 in Saturday’s other 5A semi-final. Yorkton will play host to Bishop Mahoney in the 5A provincial final on Saturday at 1 p.m.
 
