
# Schools to be awarded for exceptional pastoral care

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Doyle**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/educationnews/2019/11/06/news/schools-to-be-awarded-for-exceptional-pastoral-care-1756289/)

SCHOOLS who offer outstanding pastoral care, over and above what is expected, are to be honoured.
The Derrytrasna Pastoral Care Award provides recognition to school communities that have demonstrated exceptional cooperative effort in supporting pupils.
It recognises those who make a real difference to their pupils lives.
The awards were created in honour of the care that St Mary's PS in Derrytrasna, Co Armagh gave children when one was battling cancer.
Adele Madden, a P5 pupil at St Mary's, died in February 2011 aged eight.
Previous winners include St Paul's PS in Irvinestown who provided support following a boy's diagnosis with an aggressive form of cancer and after his death.
Our Lady's NS in north Belfast was honoured last year for its approach to helping a child who has autism and high anxiety levels.
"Young people today are facing many challenges and that is why the support provided by our schools can prove vital in helping them deal with the difficulties and hardships of life," said Derek Baker, Permanent Secretary for the Department of Education.
"Excellent pastoral care is not about the everyday support offered by schools. It is about a level of care and help that is provided over and above what is expected and it is important that we acknowledge and celebrate such work."
Fiona Teague from the Public Health Agency said the link between the physical, social and emotional wellbeing of young people to their intellectual development was clear.
"A commitment to excellence in physical health, social competence and emotional resilience will provide our young people with the tools and foundations to achieve a good quality of life," she said.
:: Applications should be made by December 13 using the form at www.education-ni.gov.uk/articles/derrytrasna-award-pastoral-care.
