
# Celtic star Olivier Ntcham set for huge decision as he receives Cameroon boost

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:17:31+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-star-olivier-ntcham-set-20814433)

Celtic midfielder Olivier Ntcham could switch allegiance from France to Cameroon after being placed on standby for their Africa Cup of Nations qualifying matches against Cape Verde and Rwanda.
The Parkhead star has been capped by France at all youth levels and has won 18 caps for the French Under-21s team and even played for them in this summer's European Under 21s Championship Finals where they reached the semi-finals.
But he's set to play for the Indomitable Lions now and is on the waiting list for their double-header next week in Yaounde against Cape Verde and then in Kigali where they will face Rwanda.
Cameroon boss Toni Conceicao has been attempting to persuade the midfielder, whose parents are both from the African nation, to play for his side and ditch the World Champions.
Last year after signing a new deal with Celtic, Ntcham admitted he had a decision to make regarding his international future.
He said: "Cameroon have been in contact with me but, to make a good decision, you have to take your time. They are happy for me to do that.
"Even if they weren’t, it’s me who is going to decide what happens. They haven’t given me a time for when they want me to decide. In life you have to take your time when you make a decision like this. Is it a decision from the heart or the head? Both.
"My parents are both from Cameroon but they haven’t said anything to me about it. It is my decision. My friends and family all have an opinion on the situation but I don’t want to say what it is."
Ntcham has made 17 appearances for Neil Lennon's side this season, scoring three goals.
