
# Woman shares utter 'devastation' at discovering boyfriend's plans to cheat

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:44:07+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/sex-relationships/relationships/woman-shares-utter-devastation-discovering-20824141)

When a relationship falls on tough times, it can be so incredibly difficult to let it go and say goodbye.
Because not only do you lose someone you deeply care about during a break-up, you often also lose the person who knows you best in the world.
One unnamed woman has recently found herself in this heart-wrenching situation and shared her "devastation" online with the Reddit community.
Posting on the Relationship Advice forum, the 26-year-old revealed that her relationship had been a little "rocky" for a while, but her love for her partner and vice versa, had kept them going.
However, a shocking discovery was likely to destroy everything.
 
The woman had recently found out that her boyfriend of three years was planning to cheat on her during an upcoming boys trip.
She explains how the trip had been causing her anxiety and ultimately this insecurity resulted in her checking her partner's phone, where she saw messages that were "pretty bad".
"His friends have been sending pictures and profiles of girls in their group chat, talking about how they've been finding girls who 'want to f*** all of them'," she explained.
"My boyfriend at one point said 'Does it count as cheating if I just jerk off in front of her'."
 
"I woke him up and confronted him. I asked to read the rest of the text messages just so I could have the whole story and see what else he said/what concrete plans he made to cheat, but he refused," she continued.
"He claims it's all a joke and that's just how he and his friends talk to each other.
"I'm not an idiot and I know that it's probably not a joke, but it's f***ing devastating and so painful to accept after spending three years with someone who I thought was going to be my forever person, it's ending like this. I'm so not ready to break up, he is my best friend."
The woman then goes on to ask for some advice and support from people on the website - and fellow users were quick to share their thoughts on the situation.
One person replied: "The pain you'll feel now by breaking it off will be nothing compared to the pain you'll feel if you continue this relationship. "
Another said: "You can still love someone and be best friends with someone at the same time... just not emotionally connected on the same level. Don't let yourself have the stress about worrying what could/will happen.
"Stuck around with my ex for three years, loved him, he was my best friend... cheated on me three times and I just ignored it. One day it finally clicked like what the f*** am I still doing?!?! Best decision I ever made. You deserve better!"
A third added: "Love is not the magical force we make it out to be. Just because you love someone doesn't mean you can't leave them and sometimes the most loving thing you can do for a partner is end a bad relationship."
