
# Royal Navy Marines evacuate vulnerable people to safety in United States exercise

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:26:14+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/royal-navy-marines-evacuate-vulnerable-3512206)

Plymouth Royal Marines took part in a large-scale evacuation in a fictional country during an epic training exercise in the United States.
Green berets from Stonehouse-based 30 Commando have been in Quantico, Virginia, as part of a military drill with their counterparts from the USA, Australia, Holland, Canada and Colombia.
Commandos had to rescue residents in the made-up South East Asian county of Cyan as part of the fictional scenario.
British Marines must be ready to deliver humanitarian aid to help civilians in need, as well as specialising in warfare in extreme environments.
Their first task was to produce detailed plans for a Non-combatant Evacuation Operation (NEO), the withdrawal of people in danger to a safe haven.
That could be British citizens or nationals who are also at risk, or nonessential military personnel.
The 30 Commando IA cell were joined by Royal Navy Reserve subject matter experts along with Defence Scientist Technology Lab (DSTL) analysts specialising in behavioural science.
After a week of planning, the task force carried out the NEO in a life-like scenario created by the Urban Training Complex and a host of highly-skilled role players, which allowed the teams to gain the maximum training benefit from each phase.
The 30 Commando contingent and participants from the Dutch Marines and USMC also took the opportunity to further develop the long standing Tri-Marine relationship.
Major Anthony Hill, Officer Commanding, 30 Commando IA Cell, said: "Combined Unit Exercise 19.2 has been great for the IA Cell and given us the opportunity to practise working alongside our marine counterparts from the Dutch and US marines, which is an already strong relationship we are always keen to further improve."
The exercise was designed to provide Information Operations and information-related capabilities and give trained personnel the opportunity to exercise integration into an operational planning team and focus on tactical skills.
It provided 30 Commando with the opportunity to refine Information Operations skills, ensuring they are suitably qualified to undertake missions during the winter deployment in the Arctic and beyond, for both the Royal Marines and wider defence.
