
# BMW X3 xDrive30e: Coming to Australia Q2 2020

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:36:18+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805392/2020-bmw-x3-xdrive30e-australia-q2/)

- shares
The all-wheel drive BMW X3 xDrive30e will be launched in Australia during the second quarter of 2020, and will be the brand's seventh plug-in hybrid model.
The X3 xDrive30e has a plug-in hybrid drivetrain with a 135kW 2.0-litre turbocharged four-cylinder engine mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission with a built-in 80kW electric motor. This is the same setup as the 330e sedan.
Working together the powertrain generates a maximum of 215kW of power, and 420Nm of torque. In hybrid mode, the xDrive30e can dispatch the 0-100km/h standard in 6.1 seconds.
Using the WLTP testing cycle, the plug-in hybrid X3 can be driven using only electric power for up to 46 kilometres. Depending on the selected driving mode, the X3 xDrive30e has a maximum EV speed of 110km/h or 135km/h.
Plugged into a standard wall socket, the X3 xDrive30e can be recharged in six hours. With a BMW i Wallbox the charging time can be reduced to 3.5 hours.
The car's 12kWh battery pack is located underneath the rear seat, while the fuel tank is positioned above the rear axle.
According to BMW, the xDrive30e has the same 450 litres of boot space as conventionally powered X3 models. This can be expanded to 1500L when the 40:20:40 split-fold rear seat is put down.
Pricing and specifications will be announced closer to the car's launch date, but we do know the X3 xDrive30e will be available with low-speed acoustic alerts for pedestrians.
Owners will also be able to remotely control, via a smartphone app, the car's climate control system, as well as monitor and configure its charging status.
15
nextpreviousBMW X3 xDrive30e: Coming to Australia Q2 2020
