
# How England's golden World Cup run is inspiring some of the Premier League's biggest names

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:49:19+00:00**

Author: **Alex McLeod**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/how-englands-golden-world-cup-run-is-inspiring-some-of-the-premier-leagues-biggest-names)

As England prepare to challenge South Africa for their second-ever Rugby World Cup crown in Yokohama on Saturday, their unblemished run to the tournament’s final has provided a source of inspiration for two unlikely candidates.
Eddie Jones’ side are yet to drop a match in Japan after having blitzed through the pool stages, brushing aside Australia in the quarter-finals and overwhelming reigning champions New Zealand in the semi-finals last week.
Their compelling 19-7 victory over the All Blacks, in particular, has struck a chord within the rugby fraternity, with some labelling the win as the best performance by an English side at a World Cup, such was their dominance against the previous title favourites.
Subsequently, England head into the final against the Springboks as firm favourites, but their awe-inspiring form hasn’t gone unnoticed by some of football’s biggest names in the Premier League.
Manchester City’s manager Pep Guardiola and Chelsea boss Frank Lampard have both spoken of England’s success in the days leading up to the World Cup final, with both coaches believing they can learn plenty from their cross-code rivals.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
Guardiola – considered one of football’s greatest managers after leading City, Bayern Munich and Barcelona to a plethora of domestic and European club titles – has previously spent time with Jones when he observed a training session during the Spaniard’s time with German giants Bayern three years ago.
Jones has openly spoken in the past about how the City manager has been a major influence on his coaching methods during England’s run to the World Cup final.
Speaking to reporters on Friday ahead of his side’s league clash with Southampton this weekend, Guardiola reserved plenty of praise for the Australian-born 59-year-old, and extended an invitation to Manchester City for both him and the entire England squad upon their return from Japan.
