
# Mum looks unrecognisable after spending £19k from nan's inheritance on new look

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:27:28+00:00**

Author: **Kelly-Ann Mills, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-unrecognisable-after-spending-19k-20823371)

A mum looks unrecognisable after spending £19,000 changing the way she looked - thanks to her nan's inheritance cash.
Tracy Cook was left £60,000 when her grandmother Doris died, aged 92, and shed an incredible 10 stone after gastric sleeve surgery.
Within five months, she's gone from an unhappy 21 stone 10 pounds to a 11 stone 10 pounds yummy mummy.
And she says her new look has given her a new energy and zest for life.
Doris had made Tracy promise to spend the money on herself after she spent years bringing her three children up alone.
Tracy, a 49-year-old hairdresser from Peterborough, Cambs, said: "I have always been a chunky girl, I have been trying all my life to lose weight, I couldn't get my head around it, I think I've tried every diet on the planet.
 
"Since being a parent it has been the hardest. As a single mum of three kids, trying to juggle everything, my only treats were bars of chocolate.
"I was really close to my nan, she was always telling me 'I'd love to see you happy, I'd like you to lose some weight and meet somebody and be happy.
"She was taken really poorly and she told me 'I've left you some money and I want you to spend them on you, not on the kids, not paying bills, not doing anything else, just spend it on you- and that's exactly what I've done.
"I couldn't have done it without my nan's money, I wouldn't have gotten a loan to have it done because I would have felt I was being really selfish but when my nan told this is what she wanted me to do with it, that was it for me.
"Of course, I still felt I had to put half of the money away from my children's futures - but I hope my nan would be happy if she could see how it's changed all of our lives."
Tracy had been dreaming of transforming her look for years, and managed to save enough money to have a gastric sleeve operation herself before her nan died.
 
But since Doris died, she was more determined than ever to lose all her excess weight -10 stone - and has since had 13.2lb of loose skin removed.
She plans to have even more surgery in December, when she will have 6.6lb removed.
In August she had a '360 lower body lift', which is a removal of the hanging skin, from the front and the back and a breast reduction that cost £15,000.
She is also planning to have another procedure in December, to get rid of the skin in the inner thighs and upper arms which is going to cost another £10,000.
She added: "Although the pain was awful, I did wake up the next morning, looked at myself in the mirror and thought 'Oh my God, I love that belly!'- it was the most exciting thing.
"My tummy skin literally hung on my thighs- I used to tell my kids, when I was going up the stairs my tummy was giving me a round of applause, no more rounds of applause anymore!
 
"I am very very happy, I have had a massive confidence boost, I feel better with myself and now I even have a man in my life.
"It literally has transformed me- it's not just about the weight loss.
"The weight loss has given me the strength to do things I would never have done before.
"I have been going to the gym, which I never thought it could happen- I was thinking I'm never going to be able to do a class or keep up with anybody and now it's awesome because I am doing exactly the same things as the skinny girls in front of me.
"It's euphoric, it's an amazing feeling.
"I keep calling my surgeon a 'magician', she is a miracle lady who managed to transform me."
Tracy has given the rest of the money to her children Charlotte, 23, Mitchell, 21 and Tiffinni, 18.
She added: "Giving them money has enabled them to have a deposit to get their own houses. I know I wouldn't be in a position to do it ever again but if I had spent all the money on me I'd be thinking I could so help the kids.
"I have done something that it changed my life so I wanted to help my children to set up their lives with the rest of it."
