
# Election: In Southampton Itchen A Few Student Votes Could Be Difference Between Winning and Losing

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:40:28+00:00**

Author: **by Chris Summers**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911071077244354-uk-election-in-southampton-itchen-a-few-student-votes-could-be-difference-between-winning-and/)


        Britain faces a General Election on 12 December and around the country there will be battles to become the MP in the 650 consituencies. But the margin of victory is  wafer thin in Southampton Itchen, as Sputnik found out.
      
Polling day is only five weeks away but there is no sign of election fever yet in Southampton Itchen, a constituency on the south coast of England where the Conservative MP Royston Smith won last time by a margin of just 31 votes.
There are no election posters or boards up in Southampton city centre or anywhere in the eastern suburbs of Bitterne, Sholing, Woolston and Peartree which make up the constituency, named after the river Itchen which it traverses.
Nor are there any clues about who to vote for on the Harefield or Thornhill estates, out on the north-eastern extremity of the constituency.
But some people have already made their minds up.
Jo Newman and her mother Shirley had just visited an NHS dentist on the Thornhill estate when they spoke to a Sputnik reporter on Wednesday, 6 November.
Jo, who voted Remain in 2016, said she too would be voting Labour and said for her the main issues were the state of the NHS and the damage which had been done to the country by austerity.
Jo said: “There are hundreds of thousands of people on zero hours contracts who are not included in the unemployed total.”
She said she also found it quite suspicious that Boris Johnson’s government had decided austerity was over just in time for the general election, when they have promised billions of pounds in spending on the NHS, schools and the police.
In 2015 Hampshire Police brought down a drugs gang on the Thornhill estate known as "The Government", who were controlling the supply of hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of heroin and other Class A drugs.
Drugs remains an issue in Thornhill but in nearby Bitterne the election is only about one thing for some people.
But Mr Thomas, who voted to Leave in the 2016 referendum, said he believed Brexit could have been delivered by now if Theresa May had formed an all-party committee and negotiated a deal with the EU which the Labour Party could have approved, rather than negotiating in secret and then presenting a deal in November 2017 which was rejected three times by Parliament.
Mr Thomas lives only a few yards from Bitterne Conservative Club, where Royston Smith has his constituency office.
Mr Smith, then the leader of the city council, hit the headlines in 2011 when he tackled a rogue submariner armed with a gun on board HMS Astute, which was docked in Southampton on a goodwill visit.
Able Seaman Ryan Donovan, 23, later admitted murdering Lieutenant Commander Ian Molyneux, 36, and injuring another sailor on board the nuclear submarine.
Mr Smith was not available for comment when Sputnik called on him.
But his opponent, Simon Letts, was more than happy to discuss the election and his chances of overcoming his old adversary - they led the Labour and Conservative groups on the city council for many years.
In 2017 Mr Letts got 21,742 votes and Mr Smith got 21,773.
He is not perturbed by the fact that Labour are trailing the Conservatives by between 11 and 16 percent in the opinion polls.
“Last time we were 24 points down at the start of the campaign and the Tories were predicting a 9,000 majority here. We are only 11 points down and it’s all to play for,” said Mr Letts.
He said the first thing he needed to do was to persuade “progressive voters” to opt for Labour, rather than the Liberal Democrats or the Greens and he is of course hoping the Brexit Party will take more votes from the Tories than Labour.
