
# Young superstar re-evaluates his future with Barcelona

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:02:59+00:00**

Author: **Ernesto Hernandez**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/04/riqui-puig-re-evaluates-barcelona-future/)

Barcelona are going through a rough patch when it comes to the first team. But they are also facing some serious decisions when it comes to the ‘B’ team with regards to Riqui Puig.
Puig is the current star of the academy with the player showing tremendous ability and skill down in the Segunda B division in Spain. With that talent also comes risks such as late tackles and challenges.
After a scary moment when Puig had to be stretchered off, Barcelona began to question whether a loan move to a first division team would be better for his development and safety.
Initially, Puig brushed away any questions about leaving the club and would rather stay to fight for a place in the first team.
However, things have changed.
He spoke about his future following Barça B’s game against Andorra.
According to Sport, he said, “I’d like to have more minutes and if I see I won’t get them I’ll have to make a decision.”
He reiterated that in theory his plan is still to stay but knows that if he is to improve, he needs to move up a level.
Another reason he gave as to the sudden change in mind is that he has not had as much time with the first team as he did last season.
According to Marca, he said, “I am not training so much with the first team this season. Last year I was practically a part of the first team; I trained with them and I went down to play with Barcelona B.”
Given the current state of the club, sentiments like Puig are likely to be shared by other promising prospects.
The direction of the first team seems to indicate that they prefer flashy summer signings rather than the development of their young players.
Arturo Vidal and Ivan Rakitic, though not so much this season for the Croatian, have been more heavily relied upon by Ernesto Valverde. The manager places more trust in veterans at the expense of a player like Carles Aleña. A situation that has likely not gone unnoticed by Puig.
People can point to Ansu Fati and Carles Perez as young players getting minutes from Valverde. Such was the case early in the season but that was more out of necessity. With the arrival of Griezmann and the other players coming back from injury, Fati and Perez have seen their playing time severely reduced.
The final decision will ultimately be Puig’s decision to make. Loaning out a young player is always risk so both player and club need to make sure that wherever he goes, if he does at all, is the right fit.
