
# Geological stratification inspires new central park at University District

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:44:44+00:00**

Author: **Josh Skapin**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/life/homes/condos/geological-stratification-inspires-new-central-park-at-university-district)

A new northwest Calgary community is underscoring its emphasis on connections with the addition of a major park.
University District, by West Campus Development Trust, marked the ground-breaking of its innovative central park recently.  At 1.21 hectares (three-acres), it’s comparable in size to southwest Calgary’s Shaw Millennium Park.
“From the start, we have envisioned University District as a gathering place for people of all ages to interact, live and play,” says James Robertson, president and CEO of West Campus Development Trust. “We are in the third year of turning our ambitious vision into reality, and this ground-breaking is an important milestone.”
Located in the heart of the community, the park — which is expected to be complete in 2022 — will boast a staging area for concerts, winter skating rink with a cooling system, water fountain feature, picnic area with tables and barbecue pits, public plaza, patio area, and underground parking.
Robertson says this will be a desirable “gathering place, place to recreate.”
University District’s residential segment is comprised of multi-family developments by Truman Homes, Brookfield Residential, and Avi Urban, respectively. All three builders have sales centres within the University District Discovery Centre at 4410 University Dr. N.W.
There are more than 1,000 residential units presently under construction in the community.
On the north side of the park is Block 23, where the first two buildings will be built by West Campus Development Trust at University District. The east building will have a Cineplex VIP Cinemas theatre and a Staples, along with restaurants and other forms of entertainment, while the west building is slated for retail and office space along with similar restaurants and entertainment.
Between these buildings will be a public plaza with a glass feature.
“In the initial concept phase, we talked about ideas that could create a story for what this place would be,” says Stephen Mahler, partner at Gibbs Gage Architects, which handles the building design, adding “we talked about a concept that merges landscape with buildings.”
“The form of the buildings and park takes inspiration from our geographical setting in the foothills,” he adds. “The building forms reflect geological stratification that is exposed through erosion. The landscape of the park rises on the east side to create a promontory from which the overall park can be experienced and which connects into the building second floor.”
Mark Johnson, president of Civitas, leading the landscape and urban design of the central park, calls parks “very special places.”
“First and foremost a park has to be a place that is of the place,” he adds. “When you see this park, I think you’ll realize, you’ll never see a park like this anywhere else because it only belongs here.
“Second, parks need to be highly connected and accessible. Parks are about connecting people to people and people to nature. That little triangle of different people coming together in a natural place, you feel relaxed. It’s good for your mental health. It’s good for social health. It’s good for your personal health, your physical health.”
While mayor Naheed Nenshi was not able to attend the event to celebrate the ground-breaking of the park, he left a video message for those who attended, calling the expansive four-season open space “magnificent.”
“It’s going to make a difference to the people of University District, northwest Calgary, and the whole city,” he said. “I’ve been loving watching the development of University District, creating a new, incredible neighbourhood for the university and for Calgary.”
University District continues to take shape with multiple businesses targeted to open in summer of next year. They include a Save-On-Foods grocery store, Freshii, Market Wines, Pet Planet, Analog Coffee, Press’d Sandwich Shop, Curious Hair Skin Body, Denim & Smith Barbershops, and Scotiabank.
