
# Tyson Fury to train with UFC star Darren Till as boxer eyes transition to MMA

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:56:02+00:00**

Author: **Ned Keating**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/tyson-fury-train-ufc-star-20833375?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Tyson Fury has revealed he will train with UFC star Darren Till this weekend as the lineal world heavyweight boxing champion bids to transition to MMA .
Speculation has been rife in recent weeks that the 31-year-old had been eying a switch to the octagon following a successful, albeit brief, stint in wrestling with WWE .
Though he has a potential rematch with fellow undefeated boxing champ Deontay Wilder to look forward to in February next year, the Gypsy King remains keen to try his hand at another sport.
Francis Ngannou has been touted as a potential opponent for Fury should he make the move to MMA, with the Frenchman saying he would relish the chance to fight the boxer.
And speculation the pair will meet next year is sure to go into overdrive after the 31-year-old announced on his Instagram page that he would be linking up with fellow Brit Till in the gym.
"Good news everybody, I'm going to go training with Darren Till this weekend," said the Gypsy King in a video posted online.
"We're going to smash it and he's going to get me started on my MMA career. Get in there my boy."
Fury's latest revelation comes a day after the lineal champ hit back at rival Wilder's claims that the Brit was running scared of a potential rematch between the duo.
The pair first met in the ring in Los Angeles in December last year, with Fury rising off the canvas as the bout ended in a draw following a monumental clash.
Speaking ahead of his WBC world title defence against Cuban Luis Ortiz, Wilder said he felt Fury was no longer as keen on the rematch as he once was, prompting an angry response from the Brit.
"The thing is with you Wilder, crack on with your own business and I'll see you February 22 to finish what I started. This time you're going to get smashed you big bum dosser," said Fury.
