
# The slippery talent of Emmanuel Carrère

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:08:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Economist](https://www.economist.com/books-and-arts/2019/11/07/the-slippery-talent-of-emmanuel-carrere)

97,196 Words. By Emmanuel Carrère. Translated by John Lambert.Farrar, Straus & Giroux; 294 pages; $28. Jonathan Cape; £18.99.
EMMANUEL CARRèRE is known for the way he bends and breaks genres. His essays and books pick through the minds of murderers, con-men, Russian revolutionaries, artists, power-brokers, addicts and the downtrodden; even his own friends, family and lovers. He started as a novelist in his 20s and 30s, and now, at 61, is the most celebrated writer of high-end nonfiction in France. What distinguishes his prose is not its lyricism—as John Lambert’s translation conveys, it is simple and spare—but his intrusive, philosophical first-person voice. Mr Carrère is a character in his narratives and portraits, always there reminding you that it’s him, Emmanuel, writing the words that you are reading.
In this collection of his essays, an interview with Catherine Deneuve, an actor, turns into the story, “How I Completely Botched My Interview with Catherine Deneuve”; a column for an Italian magazine revolves around Mr Carrère’s fraught correspondence with his editor; and a report on a crime is rendered as a personal letter to the mother of the killer. The author is everywhere. At first, this relentless self-reflection seems solipsistic and overdone—a kind of post-modern posturing—but the ultimate effects are subtler and deeper. Readers learn far more about Ms Deneuve, her cunning and restraint, than other writers might relay, and all this happens while Mr Carrère is detailing his own nervousness and the supposed failure of the encounter. At bottom, he has two exceptional, but rather traditional, writerly gifts: psychological acuity and narrative tautness. And he has learned how to dress those skills in clever conceits.
Mr Carrère’s trademark style crystallised while he was working on his book “The Adversary” (2000). It was intended as an account of Jean-Claude Romand, a French murderer who in 1993 killed his wife, children, parents and dog, and attempted to kill himself, after almost two decades of pretending to be a researcher at the World Health Organisation. Inspired by Truman Capote’s “In Cold Blood”, Mr Carrère tried, and failed, to write the book for six years; then, a few days after abandoning the project, he sat down and penned a simple report for himself, summarising the work he had done. It began: “On the Saturday morning of January 9th 1993, while Jean-Claude Romand was killing his wife and children, I was with mine in a parent-teacher meeting at the school attended by Gabriel, our eldest son.” After a few pages, Mr Carrère realised that he was writing the very book that had eluded him for years. It was simply a matter of “saying yes to the first person”.
This accidental style has since become a sort of credo. It is mendacious, Mr Carrère suggests, for authors to pretend that they exist above or outside a rigorously crafted piece of writing, as Capote did for instance. “I don’t think you can put yourself in other people’s positions. Nor should you,” he has argued. “All you can do is occupy your own, as fully as possible, and say that you are trying to imagine what it’s like to be someone else, but say it’s you who’s imagining it, and that’s all.”
It is hard to tell whether this is philosophical high-mindedness or faux naivety—because the core of Mr Carrère’s talent is precisely that he brings readers into sympathetic contact with others, powerful and powerless, insiders and outsiders. His own textual persona is less flesh-and-blood than an ethereal, emotionally distant presence. His “I” becomes a transparency, a way of portraying others—whether it be a bereaved parent or President Emmanuel Macron—through himself. It is a masterful illusion. The more words Mr Carrère expends on his own life, the farther away he seems, and the closer the reader gets to the lives of others. ■
