
# CCTV shows car mounting kerb before crashing into pub smoking area, killing man

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:19:31+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, Louie Smith, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/, Ewan Foskett**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/cctv-shows-car-mounting-kerb-20803815)

CCTV footage shows a car mounting a pavement moments before it ploughed into a group of men outside a pub, killing one of them.
A 36-year-old man died and a 34-year-old man suffered life-changing injuries in the horror smash at the Spinnaker Public House in Colchester, Essex.
Police arrested a 40-year-old man on suspicion of murder after the white Nissan Qashqai slammed into an outdoor smoking area just after 12.50am on Sunday.
Witnesses said it sounded like a "bomb" had gone off and they described a distressing scene with victims pinned against the wall and trapped underneath the vehicle.

        
          Have you been affected by the incident? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.
        
      
The Nissan is understood to have crossed the road, mounted the pavement and smashed a trellis fence before ploughing halfway through a pub window.
People were left pinned against the wall while others were trapped underneath the vehicle.
Sources close to the investigation say it is not believed the collision was a targeted attack.
Witnesses say revellers were laughing and joking in the smoking area shortly before the crash.
Regulars say the man who died had been enjoying an evening meal at the pub with his wife.
One friend said: “It is so weird we were just laughing and joking and now he is dead.
“It was an average night out, you would never expect that to happen."
It is understood Ian Winter, 34, was in hospital with life-changing injuries to his legs and hips, and his friend Carl Joyner, 33, was less seriously injured.
A 34-year-old woman, who was a passenger in the Nissan, suffered minor injuries and is said to have been seen having a panic attack following the crash.
Friends Mr Winter and Mr Joyner, who play football together, met at the pub after watching the Rugby World Cup final between England and South Africa earlier on Saturday.
Mr Winter's half-brother, James Howard, said: “I don't know the full extent of his injuries, he is under sedation and being monitored.
“As far as I know he had been out for the rugby in the morning and then this happened.
“It's devastating, I'm still in shock – I hope he pulls through.
“Whatever the future now holds for him his friends and family will be there for him.”
Mr Joyner's stepmum, Tina Joyner, said: “He is in Colchester Hospital.
“I have no idea what happened, all I know is they were standing in the smoking area and this car ploughed into them.
“I don’t know what injuries he has.
“He was just down the pub having a drink with his friends and this happened.”
In the aftermath, witnesses described a harrowing scene.
Neighbour Simone Rowe said: “I spoke to a chap who was in there at the time and he was just playing pool.
“He said it was like a bomb went off and everyone just got on the floor.
“There were people trapped under the car and they were pinned against the wall.
“I came back home and saw the paramedics wheeling out the dead body."
A friend of one of the injured victims said he was devastated to hear about the incident.
The man, who gave his name as Sean, said his friend was airlifted to hospital by helicopter with two broken legs, two broken hips and possibly a broken sternum.
He added: "I was devastated, absolutely devastated.
"He has injuries from the waist down, and someone was saying maybe head injuries, but I'm waiting for updates at the moment.
"He was with a group of about four people. All I know is the car just ploughed straight into the pub."
Police said the suspect was arrested on suspicion of murder, GBH with intent, death by dangerous driving and assault.
A spokeswoman added: "Tragically a 36 year-old man died at the scene.
“A 34 year-old man has been taken to hospital with life-changing injuries and two others, a 34 year-old woman and a 33 year-old man, were also taken to hospital with minor injuries."
Police tape surrounded the Spinnaker pub on Sunday morning and the remains of a trellis could be seen hanging off the blue wooden frame around a small roofed outside area.
Debris including bricks were seen on the ground under the roof.
A large wooden board has been placed over part of the pub's wall but broken mortar and bare bricks can be seen behind it.
Long cracks run up the wall and around a broken sign, the other half of which was lying on the ground.
