
# Common Weal among winners of 2019 Sask. Arts Awards

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:31:40+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/entertainment/local-arts/common-weal-among-winners-of-2019-sask-arts-awards)

The 2019 Saskatchewan Arts Awards were presented Monday, Nov. 4, in Saskatoon. The winners were…
Cole’s artistic path took her from Regina, to Seattle, to Toronto, and back to Regina, as she realized she couldn’t make a living as an artist living in a big city.
In 1978, she purchased a defunct United Church in the village of Disley to serve as her studio. There, she has created fibre artworks ever since (although lately, she is exploring wood sculpture — the medium that first piqued her artistic interest).
Cole’s art is in the public collections of the Saskatchewan Arts Board, Government of Saskatchewan, MacKenzie Art Gallery, Weyburn Arts Council and the City of Regina, as well as in numerous private collections. In 2017 Martha was awarded the Saskatchewan Order of Merit for her contributions to the province.
McIntyre is a well-known composer who began playing piano as a four-year-old in Saskatoon. He studied music at various schools, and since 1976 has been active in the Saskatchewan musical community as a pianist, organist, teacher, conductor and composer.
Between 1976 and 1995, McIntyre taught music at the Canadian Bible College in Regina. He also taught at the University of Saskatchewan and the University of Regina.
He spent three years as composer-in-residence with the Regina Symphony Orchestra to create new orchestral works. He has received commissions from various other artists and organizations.
Roy is a poet, community-based educator, community engagement consultant, author, filmmaker and social entrepreneur. She is pursuing her PhD in education from York University.
Roy’s Cree-Dene-Métis roots and career as an artist give her a unique insight into working with Canadian Indigenous and non-Indigenous youth in pursuit of relationship-building and reconciliation. Roy has collaborated with around 300 classrooms to produce collective stories. She has worked with youth in northern First Nations on suicide prevention strategies.
Roy also founded Rock the Vote in Saskatchewan, which turned into a Canadian movement during the 2011 federal election to mobilize disenfranchised populations across Canada.
Podiluk is an art jeweller and goldsmith. She earned a bachelor of fine arts in jewellery design and metalsmithing from the NSCAD University in 2012. Bringing a foundation of traditional goldsmithing to a contemporary space through her exploration of alternative materials and techniques, she draws on anatomical and botanical forms to create visual parallels to language and sound.
Podiluk has exhibited her work nationally and internationally, and has won various awards.
Houghtaling has been the director/curator at the Art Gallery of Swift Current (AGSC) since 1996 — two years after the city nearly closed the gallery. Under his tenure, the AGSC has physically expanded, has engaged the public with extracurricular arts activities, has showcased 150 different exhibitions, and has become a resource hub for the arts and other related cultural services in southwest Saskatchewan.
Events that began as projects through the Art Gallery of Swift Current include the SaskPower Windscape Kite Festival, Blenders: Art & Music Series, Long Day’s Night Music Festival and the Lyric Theatre.
Since 1992, Common Weal Community Arts has fostered collaboration between professional artists and communities, with the goal of promoting social change and cultural identity through creative expression.
Common Weal is passionate about empowering people to tell their stories in their own voices — whether creating with seniors or people in correctional centres, fostering dialogue on racism, creating space for queer, trans, and non-binary people to dance, or exploring land-based knowledge in the remote north.
