
# Tucson sanctuary city, Colorado sports betting before voters

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **The Associated Press**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/5/tucson-sanctuary-city-colorado-sports-betting-befo/)

Voters in the West are deciding several ballot measures Tuesday, including one that would make Tucson, Arizona, a sanctuary city and initiatives that would legalize sports betting in Colorado and an affirmative action referendum in Washington state.
Among the highlights:
ARIZONA
People in Tucson are being asked to designate it as Arizona’s only sanctuary city. Proposition 205 was started by a group of activists looking to give a voice to the city’s sizeable Latino communities. It would put new restrictions on when and where a person can be asked about their immigration status and require officers to first tell people that they have a right not to answer questions about whether they’re in the country legally. Tucson’s entire City Council, all Democrats, is opposed, citing concerns about the potential for losing millions of dollars in state and federal funding.
COLORADO
A measure that would legalize sports betting and tax it to help conserve water is being considered in Colorado. Proposition DD had bipartisan support and only token organized opposition. But the state Constitution requires voters to approve new taxes. It would allow Colorado’s 33 casinos to take both in-person and online bets on professional, collegiate, motor and Olympic sports next year. Legal sports betting has grown since New Jersey won a U.S. Supreme Court case in 2018 allowing it in all 50 states.
Colorado’s voters are also deciding Proposition CC, which asks if the state can permanently keep tax revenue that otherwise would be refunded under limits set by a 1992 constitutional amendment called the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights.
WASHINGTON
Voters will decide whether minority status should be considered as a contributing factor in state employment, contracting and admission to public colleges. Referendum 88 asks people whether they want to approve or reject Initiative 1000, which was passed by the Legislature in April. I-1000 amends current statutes that prohibit state government from discriminating against or giving preferential treatment to individuals or groups based on race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in public employment, public education, or public contracting.
And voters in Washington are weighing in on a transportation measure. They are being asked whether annual vehicle registration fees should be capped at $30. If Initiative 976 is approved transit and road budgets across the state would be slashed.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
