
# Chiefs Star: We Expected Mhango To Start

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:08:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/chiefs-star-we-expected-mhango-to-start/666607)

Man-of-the match Lebogang Manyama admits they were expecting Gabadinho Mhango to start for Orlando Pirates in their Telkom Knockout quarter-final.

        READ: Drama Galore In Durban As Chiefs End Bucs' TKO Dream
      
Chiefs advanced to the semi-finals of the League Cup with a penalty shoot-out triumph over the Buccaneers after it ended 2-2 after extra-time at the Moses Mabhida Stadium.
Manyama reveals they had to switch up their approach once they saw Mhango on the bench as Tshegofatso Mabasa started up front alone.
"We knew we were gonna meet a different Pirates, this game is special as you know in the country, but I gotta give credit firstly to our fans they've been with us since the beginning of the season, they've been selling out stadiums, so ja this is for them," Manyama told SuperSport.
"Secondly to the boys, 1-0 down against Pirates, maybe you can say luck when they get a red-card we raise it, we never stop fighting, we fight week in, week out you know and we take it from here, we have a game against them next week, so ja so far so good.
"When you play Pirates you don't know which formation you gonna face, we had hoped they gonna start with Mhango and Mabasa but now they came completely different, so we had to switch it up a bit.
"first-half we were a bit lost, then second-half, obviously when 'Dumi' [Dumisani Zuma] comes in, I gotta praise him also, he raises the whole team with his energy and how he plays you know, so we take a win even though Pirates deserved it too. I mean to fight the way they did with ten men you gotta them huge respect also."
Manyama added that he was confident of taking a penalty in the shoot-out despite missing in the round of 16 clash against Cape Town City.
"Obviously the last time I missed, but look I'm a big boy, I know I will miss sometimes but I was very calm, actually mine came after they had missed, it was very vital, mentally you gotta be strong. Even when they said, "Are you taking?", I said, "Ja I'm taking it", I've been taking at training the whole week and I didn't worry I missed before, you learn from this kind of things, I knew I had to do better and I'm glad I did better," he said.
