
# 2020 Skoda Octavia: Interior sketched

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:47:28+00:00**

Author: **James Wong**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805904/2020-skoda-octavia-interior/)

- shares
The next-generation Skoda Octavia has been teased again, this time with a designer's drawing of the new model's interior.
Compared to the outgoing model, the new Octavia will have a much more modern dashboard layout with higher-set displays and a new two-spoke steering wheel.
Skoda says the Octavia will feature a new "multi-level instrument panel", a free-standing central display, and a new rocker switch with shift-by-wire technology in place of the previous selector lever.
We can also see the rear console for the Octavia's new three-zone climate control air-conditioning system.
As detailed by the Czech brand last week, the new Octavia will offer more space, technology and electrified powertrain options compared to the current model.
Some available features include Matrix LED headlights with adaptive high-beam, dynamic turn indicators, a 10-inch infotainment system with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, the latest version of Skoda's 10-inch Virtual Cockpit digital instruments, plug-in hybrid and 48V mild-hybrid engine options, and cleaner diesels.
We've also seen the frontal design of the liftback sedan leaked via an online configurator, too.
The fourth-generation Skoda Octavia will be revealed in Prague on November 11.
Skoda Australia has indicated the next-generation of its most popular model, the Octavia, will be arriving Down Under during the first quarter of 2021.
Paul Pottinger, communications boss for Skoda's local division, told CarAdvice in March the next-gen small liftback and wagon will commence production for our market late next year.
"Production starts in the backend of 2020 for Q1 2021 launch," he said.
Stay tuned to CarAdvice for our coverage of the Octavia's reveal next week.
13
nextprevious2020 Skoda Octavia: Interior sketched
