
# Fosun boss reveals transfer plans as Wolves and Arsenal drop major selection hints

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/fosun-boss-reveals-transfer-plans-17181089)

Wolverhampton Wanderers are ‘ready to invest’ once the January transfer window opens, says chairman Jeff Shi.
Wolves have enjoyed a solid start to the season in the Premier League and the Europa League despite Nuno Espirito Santo preferring to operate with a small squad.
For the first time in Nuno’s tenure, injuries have hit Wolves in recent weeks with several players suffering from minor issues. Nuno will be without Willy Boly for a while too after the club’s star centre-back fractured his fibula in training and needed surgery to repair it.
Wolves were already understood to be scouring the market for a new centre-back prior to Boly’s injury, and a midfielder is also on Nuno’s winter wish-list.
Asked whether Fosun are willing to dig deep in January, Shi told wolves.co.uk: “Of course. We are always ready to invest. Don’t worry about it. If we need to strengthen the squad of course we have the capacity to do that in January.
“The philosophy of the club is to do the right deal. We don’t want to do something wrong and spend some money on a player who never plays well. You can see some examples at other clubs so I hope we can avoid that.”
The sheer number of changes Nuno Espirito Santo made for Wolverhampton Wanderers’ Carabao Cup tie with Aston Villa on Wednesday came as a surprise to many.
Wolves chief Nuno has never made fewer than nine changes for a Carabao Cup tie during his Molineux tenure but, for the second time this season, switched all 11 players for the Villa Park bout.
Three youngsters made their full debuts and Nuno named a bench of under-23 players alongside goalkeeper Rui Patricio, who was strictly given a watching brief.
The other 10 players who started last weekend’s 1-1 draw with Newcastle United were given the night off. Two of them, captain Conor Coady and Wolves’ longest-serving player Matt Doherty, joined the 5,326 fans in Villa Park’s North Stand.
Nuno’s message was clear: The Carabao Cup is bottom of Wolves’ long list of 2019/20 priorities. After watching a youthful Wolves XI, with an average age of just 21, hold their own against an experienced Villa team, Nuno is content with his selection.
Unai Emery has dropped a hint that German playmaker Mesut Ozil could be recalled for Arsenal’s Premier League clash with Wolves on Saturday.
Ozil, 31, has only made one appearance in the Premier League this season - in the 2-2 draw with Watford in September - after falling out of favour under Spanish head coach Emery.
He played for the first time in over a month in Arsenal’s chaotic 5-5 draw with Liverpool in the Carabao Cup. He was taken off after 65 minutes of the match and the Gunners eventually lost on penalties.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
"We had decided beforehand [to take off Ozil],” said Emery. “He worked well in 65 minutes. We are going to play on Saturday, and in my mind there's the possibility to use him again. Ozil played very well. He played a very good match."
Arsenal captain Granit Xhaka didn't feature against Liverpool after the Swiss vented his anger towards supporters during the Crystal Palace match last weekend. It's not yet clear whether Emery will recall his skipper for the meeting with Wolves.
“He is now devastated – devastated and sad,” Emery said earlier this week. “We spoke yesterday and also on Sunday night. This morning he trained as normal with the group but he is devastated and sad about the situation.
“He knows he was wrong. He was wrong and he feels it inside very deeply. But that is normal as a human. You need, and every player needs, the supporters’ support.”
