
# AU transmits to UN member States Kenya’s endorsement for UNSC seat 

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:43:25+00:00**

Author: **NJOKI KIHIU**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/au-transmits-to-un-member-states-kenyas-endorsement-for-unsc-seat/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya Nov 1 – The African Union has formally communicated to United Nations member states the endorsement of Kenya as its candidate for the non-permanent seat of United Nations Security Council (UNSC).
      
The endorsement comes even as Kenya stepped up its campaign to win the coveted seat for the 2021 – 2022 period.
ADVERTISEMENT
In a statement, the AU’s Permanent Observer Mission described its support of Kenya’s candidature as a great honor.
“The Permanent Observer Mission of the African Union to the United Nations avails itself of this opportunity to renew to All Permanent Missions to the United Nations the assurances of its highest consideration,” read a part of the statement delivered.
Kenya’s bid picked up momentum in November last year after East African Community Member States – Uganda, Burundi, South Sudan, Tanzania, and Rwanda – declared their support for her candidature.
READ: Africa Group endorses Kenya’s candidature for UN Security Council seat
Though Kenya won the endorsement vote at the African Union in August, Djibouti who became second had disputed the endorsement and pushed ahead with her campaign.
Kenya won the endorsement after a second round of voting by the Permanent Representatives Committee (PRC) in August after garnering 37 votes against Djibouti’s 13.
READ: Djibouti envoy says country won’t quit UNSC race despite Kenya’s endorsement by AU
AU countries make up 28 per cent of UN membership.
In the first round of voting, Kenya garnered 33 votes out of 49 ballots cast, falling short of a two-third threshold to win AU’s endorsement.
UN countries will vote to elect countries seeking to sit in the UNSC in June 2020.
Kenya will need the support of two-thirds of UN member States (129 votes) to win a seat at the UNSC which comprises China, France, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, and the United States sitting as permanent members.
Post Views: 460
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
