
# Maurizio Sarri explains Cristiano Ronaldo's furious reaction to being substituted

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:40:20+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Bicknell**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/maurizio-sarri-explains-cristiano-ronaldos-20829888)

Juventus boss Maurizio Sarri has explained Cristiano Ronaldo's furious reaction to being substituted during his side's 2-1 win over Lokomotiv Moscow on Wednesday.
Ronaldo appeared unhappy when he was hauled off in the 82nd minute of Juve's victory in Russia, which guaranteed their place in the knockout stages of the Champions League.
But Sarri said the former Manchester United and Real Madrid man was not angry at the decision to sub him - insisting the 34-year-old's reaction was simply frustration at a niggling injury.
Ronaldo had been close to scoring his 128th Champions League goal in the game, but former Arsenal midfielder Aaron Ramsey followed up his team-mate's free-kick to stab the ball home after it was fumbled by Lokomotiv's keeper.
The five-times Ballon d'Or winner was replaced by Paulo Dybala with the score still 1-1, but Douglas Costa's injury-time winner meant Juventus ensured their last-16 spot with two games still to play in the group stage.
Sarri said he decided to take Ronaldo off to protect him after monitoring an issue the Portuguese ace had complained of at half-time.
" Cristiano Ronaldo was angry because he's not okay," Sarri told Sky Sports.
"He's had a niggle in his knee for the past few days, which is overloading his thigh, which tires out too much.
"At the break he was already worried about it. Then, when I saw him make a movement I didn't like when he was accelerating I took him off because I was scared that he might do himself real harm."
The Juventus coach admitted: "It wasn't our best game, we left too much space for our rivals counter-attacks, but I'm happy with the character we showed. I saw the team wanted to win at all costs."
Serie A leaders Juventus host AC Milan in their next league game on Sunday.
