
# Rowdy easyJet flight to Amsterdam forced to turn back as police swoop to remove passengers

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:15:30+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Sam Yarwood, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/rowdy-easyjet-flight-amsterdam-forced-17189005)

Police moved to remove passengers from an easyJet flight to Amsterdam from the UK - after their rowdy behaviour caused chaos.
The rowdiness from the holidaymakers, heading to the Netherlands holiday hotspot from the UK, forced the captain to make a u-turn.
The plane turned around before it even reached the runway at Manchester Airport, reports say.
The flight with the budget carrier came at Friday lunchtime, and it had already left the gate when the captain made the decision to head back.
The easyJet plane was subsequently met by police, who boarded the plane before escorting two people off, reports the Manchester Evening News.
The other passengers also had to disembark and return to the gate while the incident was dealt with.
It is not clear exactly at this stage what happened, however easyJet said in a statement it would "not tolerate abusive or threatening behaviour on board".
Images shared with the M.E.N. show police on the plane and at the gate.
The flight had been due to take off at around 11.30am but was delayed by several hours as a result of the trouble.
It eventually departed just before 2pm.
 
A spokesman for easyJet said: "We can confirm that flight EZY1837 from Manchester to Amsterdam was required to return to stand and met by police due to two passengers behaving disruptively onboard.
"Our cabin crew are trained to assess and evaluate all situations and to act quickly and appropriately to ensure that the safety of the flight and other passengers is not compromised at any time.
 
"Whilst such incidents are rare, we take them very seriously, do not tolerate abusive or threatening behaviour on board.
"The safety and wellbeing of passengers and crew is always our highest priority."
