
# The Partridge Family creator Bernard Slade dies aged 89

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:24:10+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/partridge-family-creator-bernard-slade-20785982)

Bernard Slade, the man who created popular TV series The Partridge Family, has passed away at his home in Beverley Hills at the age of 89.
According to his family, the Canadian producer died from complications from Lewy body dementia.
Bernard was best known for behind the man behind 1970s primetime show The Partridge Family, which propelled David Cassidy, Shirley Jones and Susan Day to fame.
The show was loosely based on American band The Cowsills, a family pop group famous during the 1960s.
He will also be remembered for his Broadway show ’Same Time, Next Year’ which was later turned into a film, alongside comedy film Tribute (1980) and TV sitcom The Girl with Something Extra (1973).
Bernard, a former Air Canada steward, began his arts career as a stage actor and theatre producer but found his strengths lay in writing instead.
After substantial success in his native Canada, Bernard signed a contract with Screen Gems to write three television pilots a year.
In the mid-1960s he moved to Los Angeles where he worked on hit TV show Bewitched, with Elizabeth Montgomery playing the role of friendly witch turned housewife Samantha Stephens.
His other TV credits include The Flying Nun and Bridget Love Bernie.
Bernard was married to actress Jill Foster for more than sixty years until she passed away in 2017.
He is survived by his two children Laurie and Chris, four grandchildren and his sister Shirley Rabone.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
