
# Mane responds to Pep's diving accusations

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:56:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/mane-responds-to-peps-diving-accusations-20191107)

Cape Town - In reply to Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola, Liverpool star forward Sadio Mane joked that if diving will get him a penalty then he will do it.
The Spanish mentor went out on a limb to praise the Senegal international saying that he is a special talent who "sometimes" dives.
"It's happened a lot for Liverpool in the last years (scoring late on). It's because he's a special talent," Guardiola said of Mane on the BBC.
"Sometimes he's diving, sometimes he has this talent to score incredible goals in the last minute. He's a talent."
Soon after the comments, Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp came to player's defence and strongly insisted that Mane does not dive.
"I'm not really in a Man City mood at the moment,” said Klopp after hearing Guardiola's comments.
"Do I like that he says this about one of my players? I'm not even 100 per cent sure if he spoke about Sadio (Mane) or us in general. I didn't hear Sadio's name."
Klopp added: "Sadio is not a diver. There was a situation in the Aston Villa game where he got contact and went down. Maybe it wasn't a penalty but there was contact - it's not (his) like jumping over a leg and acting like he hit you."
Mane, who has been Liverpool's in-form player this season, took lightly to Guardiola's comments and even joked that he will do it again.
"If the 'dive' will give me a penalty then I will do it! Why not? But what Jurgen said is correct. I do not dive,” said Mane as quoted by Sky Sports News.
"There was contact (at Villa) for sure. Maybe it was not a penalty and he didn't give it, and he gave me a yellow card. To be honest I don't have any problem about it.
"It's what I want to keep doing. If I get a penalty, yeah, it's a penalty. If no penalty, no penalty, but (it) will never change the way I'm playing or the way I'm doing my things.
Guardiola's could be considered as mind games with City travelling to Anfield on Sunday to take on Liverpool in a top of the table clash.
The Reds are unbeaten in the Premier League and are six points ahead of the champions.
A win for City will take Guardiola's side within three points of Liverpool.
Meanwhile, a win for Klopp's charges will surge the Reds to a 9-point gap with a two-week international break on the horizon.
Sunday's match starts at 18:30 (SA time).

        
          - Compiled by Tashreeq Vardien
        
      
