
# Wolves plot January transfer window spending spree as Nuno assesses Arsenal

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/wolves-january-transfer-window-arsenal-17188059)

Wolverhampton Wanderers have been linked with a move for Lille defender Gabriel Magalhaes.
The Brazilian, 21, is reportedly being eyed as cover for defender Willy Boly who faces an extended period out injured.
Magalhaes, according to the Daily Mail , has been scouted by the Molineux hierarchy
The report adds that Wolves want to sign two new centre-backs, a midfielder and a forward in January when the transfer window re-opens.
 
Wolverhampton Wanderers manager Nuno Espirito Santo has been discussing his side's trip to Arsenal tomorrow (3pm).
Nuno takes Wolves to the Emirates Stadium hoping to continue the good run of form that has seen the Molineux side go five Premier League matches unbeaten.
However, last time out they lost 2-1 to West Midlands rivals Aston Villa in the Carabao Cup, while Arsenal were also dumped out of the competition at Liverpool in a penalty shootout.
Nuno 's side will be hoping to evoke memories of the 2-0 win at back-to-back champions Manchester City last month, a game in which they weathered a storm before hitting their hosts on the counter-attack.
Read the full story HERE .
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
Granit Xhaka has been left out of Arsenal's squad for the visit of Wolverhampton Wanderers today (3pm).
Xhaka was substituted during the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace last weekend, the Arsenal captain heckled by his fans as he left the pitch.
He took his shirt off and threw it to the ground and shouted obscenities at the fans before storming down the tunnel.
The Swiss international was left out of the Carabao Cup defeat to Liverpool in midweek and head coach Unai Emery has decided he will not play any part in the Wolves clash.
 
Arsenal head coach Unai Emery is anticipating a tough challenge when Wolverhampton Wanderers visit the Emirates Stadium tomorrow (3pm).
Nuno Espirito Santo's side travel to North London on the back of a 2-1 defeat to West Midlands rivals Aston Villa in the Carabao Cup fourth round.
In the Premier League, though, Wolves ' form has picked up in recent weeks with a winless start to the season curtailed at the end of September with a 2-0 defeat of struggling Watford.
Wolves have since beat Manchester City by the same score and picked up vital wins in the Europa League.
More HERE .
