
# Horner insists Red Bull have made good progress this season

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49659/horner-insists-red-bull-have-made-good-progress-this-season.html)


        It has been a year of transition for Red Bull this season as they adapt to life with a Honda engine. Christian Horner has insisted that the team have made progress in 2019.
      
Red Bull have had mixed fortunes this season with the form and consistency of Max Verstappen a high point but the doubt surrounding his long term teammate has been a cause for concern. With Daniel Ricciardo and Verstappen winning two races each last season, their two wins this season suggests they've gone backwards.
However, with expectations different this season given the transition to a Honda power unit, Horner is very satisfied with this season's form.
"This year was always going to be a transnational year with a new engine partner," he told Motorsport.

        "I have to say all compliments to Honda with all the progress they have made this year with performance.
      

        "I think we have made good progress throughout the year, we have had a couple of wins, we have achieved a couple of poles although only started on pole once, and we have been a contender to win a few races this year.
      

        "In Monaco, we were very competitive, Hungary as well, we were in a position potentially to win that race, and here again we have been that competitive.
      

        "So we are on the right trajectory. It is important that we carry the momentum into the winter and then into the beginning of next year."
      
