
# Lady Gaga Is Teaming With Ridley Scott For Her First Movie Post-A Star Is Born

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:31:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483681/lady-gaga-is-teaming-with-ridley-scott-for-her-first-movie-post-a-star-is-born)

Written By
Although Lady Gaga already had some acting experience under her belt before appearing alongside Bradley Cooper in A Star is Born, that movie was definitely the best example yet of her acting abilities. It’s been a little over a year since this version of A Star is Born was released, but the singing superstar has finally found her next movie, and it’ll see her working with director Ridley Scott.
The filmmaker behind the likes of Alien, Gladiator, American Gangster and more is directing a movie about the Gucci family fashion dynasty, namely the murder of Maurizio Gucci, the grandson of the company’s founder, Guccio Gucci. Lady Gaga has been tapped to play Patrizia Reggiani, Maurizio’s ex-wife. Patrizia was tried and convicted for arranging Maurizio’s murder in 1995.
Per Deadline, this movie, which is being written by Roberto Bentivegna, is based on the novel The House of Gucci: A Sensational Story of Murder, Madness, Glamour, and Greed, which was penned by Sara Gay Forden. Ridley Scott plans to tackle the yet-to-be-officially-titled movie after he’s finished with The Last Duel, and he’ll also produce alongside wife/actress/frequent collaborator Giannina Scott, and Scott Free Productions. The Scotts are shopping this movie to Disney/Fox first, as their production company, Scott Free, has a first-look deal there.
For those unfamiliar with Patrizia Reggiani, she married Maurizio Gucci in 1973, and they had two daughters together. But by 1985, Maurizio left her for another woman, telling Patrizia that he was going on a business trip, but never returning. Maurizio and Patrizia didn’t officially divorce until 1991, and four years after that, Maurizio was gunned down outside of his office by a hitman as he was arriving to work.
In 1997, Patrizia Reggiani was arrested for orchestrating her ex-husband’s assassination, and in the following year she was sentenced to 29 years in prison. Patrizia’s daughters asked that her conviction be overturned, blaming her actions on a brain tumor that she had removed in 1992. The sentence only ended up being reduced by three years at the time, but in 2016, Patrizia was let out of prison for good behavior, having served a total of 18 years.
Deadline noted how the media portrayal of Patrizia Reggiani depicted her as a “hot blooded woman scorned,” which earned her the nickname “Black Widow.” So needless to say Lady Gaga’s portrayal of her will be a far cry to her A Star is Born character, Ally Maine. But hey, that just means there’s another opportunity to show off her acting range.
Before A Star is Born, Lady Gaga’s most prominent acting appearances were the movies Machete Kills and Sin City: A Dame to Kill For, and several seasons of the FX series American Horror Story. But A Star is Born catapulted her acting career to a new level, and among the accolades she received were Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations.
It’s hard to say when we can expect this Gucci murder movie to come out, as The Last Duel hasn’t even begun shooting yet. But once more pieces start to fill into place on this Lady Gaga/Ridley Scott collaboration, then naturally we’ll start learning who’ll fill out the rest of the cast. It’ll be especially interesting to see who’s selected to play the late Maurizio Gucci.
Stay tuned to CinemaBlend for more updates on Lady Gaga’s next move, and in the meantime, keep up to date with what’s heading to the theater in the near future with our 2019 release schedule and 2020 release schedule.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
