
# ABC News' Amy Robach caught on hot mic saying network spiked Jeffrey Epstein bombshell

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:16:32+00:00**

Author: **Brian Flood**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/media/abc-amy-robach-jeffrey-epstein-hot-mic)

ABC News anchor Amy Robach was caught on a hot mic claiming higher-ups at her network killed a story that would have exposed the now-deceased sex offender Jeffrey Epstein three years ago, but the Disney-owned news organization says it wasn't up to their standards.
“I’ve had the story for three years… we would not put it on the air,” Robach said on the hot mic. “It was unbelievable what we had, Clinton, we had everything.”
Project Veritas, whose controversial founder, James O'Keefe, describes himself as a “guerrilla journalist,” published the footage that included Robach saying ABC refused to air an interview she conducted with one of Epstein’s victims.

        
          EXCLUSIVE: EPSTEIN'S BODY MORE CONSISTENT WITH HOMICIDAL STRANGULATION THAN SUICIDE
        
      
Robach quickly admitted the authenticity of the video, which has not been independently verified by Fox News, but dismissed the notion of unethical journalism.
“As a journalist, as the Epstein story continued to unfold last summer, I was caught in a private moment of frustration. I was upset that an important interview I had conducted with [Epstein accuser] Virginia Roberts didn’t air because we could not obtain sufficient corroborating evidence to meet ABC’s editorial standards about her allegations,” Robach said in a statement provided to Fox News.
The hot mic outburst was published by Project Veritas, which said that the tape was leaked by an ABC News insider.

        
          PROJECT VERITAS’ ALLEGED CNN WHISTLEBLOWER CLAIMS NETWORK IS ‘PUMPING OUT PROPAGANDA'
        
      
“We would not put it on the air. Um, first of all, I was told, who’s Jeffrey Epstein? No one knows who that is. This is a stupid story," Robach said on the video recording. "Then, the Palace found out that we had her whole allegations about Prince Andrew and threatened us a million different ways. We were so afraid we wouldn’t be able to interview Kate and Will that we, that also quashed the story.”
Robach also said that Roberts had photos and statements from attorneys to back up her claims.
“I tried for three years to get it on to no avail. And now it’s all coming out and it’s like these new revelations and I freaking had all of it,” Robach said. “I’m so pissed right now.”
ABC News downplayed the significance of the video, telling Fox News that the Epstein story wasn’t fit to air.

        
          NEW YORK MEDICAL EXAMINER: JEFFREY EPSTEIN'S DEATH WAS A SUICIDE BY HANGING
        
      
“At the time, not all of our reporting met our standards to air, but we have never stopped investigating the story. Ever since, we’ve had a team on this investigation and substantial resources dedicated to it," an ABC News spokesperson told Fox News. "That work has led to a two-hour documentary and 6-part podcast that will air in the new year.”
Robach was also heard saying, “There will come a day when we will realize Jeffrey Epstein was the most prolific pedophile this country has ever known. I had it all, three years ago.”
