
# Tributes flood in for 'special' mum who suddenly died as husband faces incurable cancer

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:34:13+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Balloo, https://www.facebook.com/MissBalloo/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/tributes-flood-special-mum-who-17207830)

Heartbreaking tributes have been paid to a mum who died suddenly - leaving her husband to face incurable cancer.
A fundraiser was launched for the family of Sharon Bithell, who died aged just 44 ten days after she suffered a brain aneurysm.
The mum-of-one passed away as her husband, Dave, underwent life-extending treatment.
'Active' Mrs Bithell, born and bred in Chelmsley Wood, was due to become the breadwinner for the family-of-three as her 55-year-old partner is off sick until next July.
But she died on Thursday, October 24, as the couple had just celebrated their 20th anniversary of being together.
Her husband has been left to raise their 12-year-old son Harry.
Relatives from both sides of the family have moved near to support the father and son and a GoFundMe page was launched to help them.
It smashed its target of £7,000, having raised a total of £10,177 on Wednesday, November 6 to help with day-to-day life.
 
Tributes flooded in alongside the donations, with people paying tribute to a 'lovely, special' woman.
One friend donated £200 and wrote: "I have great memories of us at toddler group with our babies in Osmington village hall.
"It was so nice to meet someone who was so down to earth and honest and who made me feel at ease! Safe to say we pulled this thing off called motherhood and you always made it look like a breeze.
"You were always the coolest mum at the school gates."
Another said: "Shaz was very special in my life!"
Even strangers took to the page to pitch in what they could.
Joanne Evans shared £100, commenting: "My husband has cancer and there is no treatment. We been married 35 years. He's my soul mate and best friend.
"Nobody really understands until it happens to them. Sorry to hear your sad news of your wife.
"She sounds a lovely person and I'm sure she looking after you and your son. Lots of love to you and your family. Sorry its not a lot but I hope it helps ❤️❤️"
The GoFundMe page is crucial as Dave cannot work while undergoing his cancer treatment.
He said: "[The cancer] is incurable so. At some point, I might go into remission.
"One of the consultants said to me: 'If you had this five years ago your chances of survival would be poor, but now its quite likely that we can give you another five years.
"Maybe I might get ten years, I might get five - I might get two, we just don't know."
Catering team leader Sharon attended Lode Heath School.
She completed an apprenticeship at Birmingham's Jewellery Quarter before settling down in Southampton, where she married Dave and gave birth to Harry. 
Between chemotherapy sessions and looking after his son, the grieving widower previously told BirminghamLive: "I had the best years of my life with Sharon, we were best friends, we loved each other.
"I absolutely adored her, she was the love of my life and I thought we would have many years together still. We had hope the future."
 
Paying tribute to his wife, he added: "She was really lovely. She was liked by everyone, very popular. She was very fit and active and a fantastic mum to Harry. At work, she was like a mother figure to a lot of people that worked there.
"Aneurysms just come on really quickly, it can just happen like that - and it did - it just happened out the blue.
"We can't believe it's happened, I'm up and down like a yo-yo, one minute I'm alright, the next I'm in floods of tears. It's like a bad dream. It's the last thing we expected.

        An aneurysm is a bulge in a blood vessel caused by a weakness in the blood vessel wall, usually where it branches.
      
As blood passes through the weakened blood vessel, the blood pressure causes a small area to bulge outwards like a balloon.
Aneurysms can develop in any blood vessel in the body, but the 2 most common places are:
This topic is about brain aneurysms.
There's a separate topic about abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Most brain aneurysms only cause noticeable symptoms if they burst (rupture).
This leads to an extremely serious condition known as a subarachnoid haemorrhage, where bleeding caused by the ruptured aneurysm can cause extensive brain damage and symptoms.
Symptoms include:
About 3 in 5 people who have a subarachnoid haemorrhage die within 2 weeks.
Half of those who survive are left with severe brain damage and disability.
Find out more about brain aneurysms here.

        An aneurysm is a bulge in a blood vessel caused by a weakness in the blood vessel wall, usually where it branches.
      
As blood passes through the weakened blood vessel, the blood pressure causes a small area to bulge outwards like a balloon.
Aneurysms can develop in any blood vessel in the body, but the 2 most common places are:
This topic is about brain aneurysms.
There's a separate topic about abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Most brain aneurysms only cause noticeable symptoms if they burst (rupture).
This leads to an extremely serious condition known as a subarachnoid haemorrhage, where bleeding caused by the ruptured aneurysm can cause extensive brain damage and symptoms.
Symptoms include:
About 3 in 5 people who have a subarachnoid haemorrhage die within 2 weeks.
Half of those who survive are left with severe brain damage and disability.
Find out more about brain aneurysms here.
"Sharon was going to be the breadwinner when I was going through all my treatment, so we just didn't have any indication of this happening."
He said Sharon was"fit as a flea" and the aneurysm came on suddenly on Sunday, October 13.
She was airlifted to hospital in Southampton after neighbours gave her CPR.
He said: "It was Sunday she went in and really we knew on the Wednesday that she wasn't going to survive, ten days later."
