
# Autopsy report reveals Namrita was sexually assaulted, strangled

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:51:59+00:00**

Author: **Z Ali**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2095327/1-autopsy-report-reveals-namrita-sexually-assaulted-strangled/)

HYDERABABD: The autopsy report of Namrita Chandani, a Bibi Aseefa Dental College student who was found dead in her hostel room in Larkana, has established that she was sexually assaulted before being strangled to death.
The post-mortem report, issued by medico-legal officer Dr Amrita 50 days after the murder, states that semen of a man has been found on the deceased student.
Previously, a two-page report shared by the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) with Larkana police had disclosed regular contact between Chandani and an arrested fellow student, Mehran Abro, but nothing beyond that was ever established.
The student was found dead in her hostel room on September 16.
Liaquat University of Medical and Health Sciences (LUMHS), Jamshoro, received samples of her viscera on September 19 and the varsity’s pathologists prepared the report by September 26.

        The incident
      
On September 16, the final year student was found dead in her hostel room.
Chandani, who belonged to Mirpur Mathelo, a taluka of Ghotki, was found lying on a charpoy with a dupatta tied to her neck while her room was locked from inside.
The body was then shifted to the district headquarter hospital for postmortem.
The victim was discovered after her colleagues who knocked at her room’s door grew worried when Chandani did not respond for several minutes.
They somehow managed to look inside the room from the crevices in the door. “She was neither responding to the knocking at the door nor to our shouts,” her friend told the police.
The hostel’s watchman later broke open the door, only to find the student lying dead. Larkana DIG Irfan Ali Baloch has given the incident’s inquiry to SSP Masood Ahmed Bangash.
