
# British tourists among 33 injured in northern France coach crash

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:46:18+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/, Peter Allen**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/breaking-british-tourists-among-33-20802462)

Eleven British tourists were among 33 people injured in a horror coach crash on a motorway in northern France.
Three of the Britons were seriously injured when the FlixBus coach reportedly skidded in the wind and rain, smashed into a guardrail as it took an exit and rolled over on to its side on the A1, east of Amiens.
It was travelling from Paris to London with passengers from eight nations - the UK, France, the US, Spain, Australia, the Netherlands, Romania and Russia.
Firefighters cut a hole in the back of the bus to free some of the injured passengers who were trapped inside the overturned vehicle.

        
          Do you know any of passengers who were on the coach? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk.
        
      
 
The incident happened on the A1 motorway, near Saint-Quentin, Somme, just before 12pm local time on Sunday.
The female driver and all 32 passengers were injured. The victims were taken to a number of local hospitals.
Local police confirmed that 11 British nationals were injured.
Four patients - three of them British - suffered serious injuries and were taken to a hospital in Amiens, the Courrier Picard newspaper reported, while the other 29 suffered lighter injuries.
A police source added: "Many of those on board were treated at the scene, while others were taken to hospitals in the area. Of the 33 people on board, four are seriously hurt."
Of the remaining nationalities, 13 passengers were believed to be French, three were from America, two from Spain and one each from Australia, the Netherlands, Romania and Russia.
A major incident was declared by the emergency services, with about 50 firefighters, 30 police officers and 10 ambulances sent to the scene.
The bus veered out of its lane at a bend, crashed into the guardrail and rolled onto its side, Courrier Picard reported.
The surface of the motorway was wet at the time.
Photos show the coach on its side with a smashed windscreen.
Part of the back of the vehicle had been cut open.
FlixBus sent a replacement coach to take passengers to London if they were well enough to continue the journey.
The firm set up an emergency number (0080030013730) and email address (specialcare@flixbus.com) for passengers and loved ones who were seeking information about those onboard.
Psychological counselling was being offered to all those who had witnessed the worst injuries.
The crash happened at Exit 13 of the A1 motorway, which was closed for several hours, at Estrées-Deniécourt.
Police are probing the cause of the crash.
A FlixBus spokesman told Mirror Online: "FlixBus regrets to confirm that, according to the most recent information available, a long-distance bus on its scheduled route from Paris to London from our local partner operating on behalf of FlixBus was involved in an accident today, Sunday November 3, at approximately at 12pm near Ablaincourt-Pressoir.
"According to the latest findings, there were 32 passengers and one bus driver on board.
"Injured passengers were taken to local hospitals; those not requiring medical attention are being taken care of by local authorities.
"FlixBus is in close contact with the relevant authorities in order to determine the exact cause of the accident and to ensure all passengers receive appropriate support.
"An emergency phone number is available for the passengers and their relatives."
A Foreign Office spokesman said: “We are in contact with the French authorities following a road traffic accident in France and we will do all we can to assist any British people who need our help.”
FlixBus is a German company that runs intercity bus service in Europe and the United States, working with regional bus companies.
It is extremely popular with young people on a tight budget, especially students.
In October, a FlixBus coach travelling from Barcelona to Bordeaux overturned on the A61 motorway near Bizanet, France.
A 21-year-old woman died and 17 other people were injured.
