
# South Ayrshire day care centre for disabled to close with nine voluntary redundancies

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:51:50+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Hilley, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sarah-hilley/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/south-ayrshire-day-care-centre-20824669)

An Ayr day centre for disabled people will shut leaving nine council staff getting £289,0000 voluntary redundancy.
Social workers have found new places for most of the 24 people who currently use the Kyle Day Centre. But two families still need to find a replacement service before it closes on New Year’s Eve. 
A council boss said there are now plans to get “rid” of the Kyle Day Centre building at St John’s Primary. Speaking at this week’s leadership panel SNP Councillor Julie Dettbarn said: “It is never an easy decision to close a service.”
Depute leader Councillor Brian McGinley, Labour,  said: “These are very vulnerable people.
“Change could be difficult for them.”
He called for assurances that efforts are being made to find a new service for them.
South Ayrshire Council complained there wasn’t a proper consultation on the move.
The decision was taken by the Integration Joint Board, which oversees health and social care. 
Chief executive Eileen Howat said: “This is probably a bad example of how we would go through the process.”
A council report presented to councillors said: “It is acknowledged that there has been a lack of consultation with the council during the decision making period.”
Fifteen people who go to the centre will now attend Hansel instead while another two will go to Turning Point and elsewhere. 
The Kyle Day Centre staff who decided not to take voluntary redundancy are due to be redeployed elsewhere in the council . 
It is predicted the closure will save  £180,736 annually. 
The Integration Joint Board is under pressure to cut spending in health and social care as it faces mounting debt.
The crisis hit board has racked up £3.2 million debt forcing South Ayrshire Council to wade in with the cash to keep services running. 
The board has made savage cuts, including scrapping Franks’ Law funding for disabled people, three months after it came into force in Scotland. 
