
# Hold Dabur India; target of Rs 484: Prabhudas Lilladher

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Broker Research**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/stocks/hold-dabur-india-target-of-rs-484-prabhudas-lilladher-4609911.html)


        Prabhudas Lilladher's research report on Dabur India
      
Dabur India has given cautious outlook following 4.8% volume growth in 2Q. Dabur is taking initiatives on new product launches and distribution expansion to drive growth, although no green shoots as visible as of now. We believe that quality of growth has not been good as large categories like Oral care and hair care are under pressure. In addition, Juices as a category is facing structural growth issues. Visibility in IBD remains hazy given growth challenges in middle east, Namaste and Hobi.

        Outlook
      
We estimate 11.1% sales and 14.7% PAT CAGR over FY19-22 and value the stock at 39xSeptFY21 EPS to arrive at target price of Rs484. Retain "Hold".

        
          For all recommendations report, click here
        
      

        
          Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
        
      

        Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
        Read More
      
