
# TUI to move Orlando flights to new airport further away from the theme parks

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:53:14+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/usa-canada/tui-move-orlando-flights-new-20823329)

TUI Airways has revealed it is moving its Orlando flights to a new airport, nearly double the distance away from Walt Disney World and Universal Studios .
The airline currently offers flights to Sanford International Airport, approximately 45 miles from Walt Disney World, but it will be moving its routes to Melbourne International Airport, approximately 77 miles away from the theme park.
The silver lining is that although the drive from the airport to the parks will be longer, it's still a doable journey as by car it takes approximately an hour and a quarter from the Melbourne airport to Walt Disney World.
(From Sanford it takes about 50 minutes by car).
The new routes will be kicking off in 2022, and will be served by the airline's Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft.
The change in airport means that holidaymakers will be closer to Florida's Space Coast, where you can find attractions such as NASA's Kennedy Space Center.
 
It's also good news for cruise passengers as the new airport is closer to Port Canaveral (about a 45 minute drive), a popular departure point for cruise holidays.
To prepare for the new routes, Orlando's Melbourne International Airport is investing millions of dollars in enhancing the terminals that will be used by TUI UK customers.
 
That includes dedicated family-friendly features, a team of ambassadors ready to greet passengers with a glass of fresh orange juice and offer any assistance for onward travel, as well as luxury extras such as concierge services and more passenger amenities to be revealed.
The terminal will also offer a range of both public and private transfer options, not to mention it will be home to plenty of car hire companies.
In the meantime if you are thinking of booking a dreamy Orlando getaway but you're on a budget, you may want to check out our guide to finding cheap Orlando holidays.
Oh, and we've also got dedicated guides for cheap Walt Disney World deals across both packages and tickets, as well as cheap Universal Studios Orlando deals , also across both packages and tickets.
