
# Loyal dog waits by side of pond whimpering after owner slips and drowns

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:11:48+00:00**

Author: **Anna Ye**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/loyal-dog-waits-side-pond-20789038)

A dog was found whimpering by the side of a pond after his owner slipped and drowned.
Family members became worried after Somprasong Srithongkhum, 56, did not return to his home in Chanthaburi, Thailand last Friday morning.
Cousin Somporn went out looking for him but dreaded something horrible had happened when she found Mhee, the six-year-old family dog, alone by the shore with his master's flip-flops and torch beside him.
Suspecting that her cousin may have slipped and drowned in the pond, she contacted the rescue team to find the body.
It took divers 10 minutes to find Somprasong's body. His wife was seen breaking down in tears being comforted by friends.
 
Family members believe the farmer fell into the pond while trying to turn on a sprinkler which waters durian on a farm.
Somporn said: "Our daily routine was going out collecting rubber in the morning but last night he told me that he felt sick.
"This morning I came to see him whether he needed any medication but I did not find him at the house.
"I wandered around looking for him and found Mhee sitting next to his sandals, like he was ordered to wait for someone.
"I think my cousin accidentally fell down into the pond when he went there to open the valve on his sprinkler which waters the durian on the farm. He might have fallen because he wasn't well.''
Police are not treating the death as suspicious and the family have accepted that Somprasong likely died in an accident.
