
# Darren Till vs Kelvin Gastelum UK start time, UFC 244 full card, TV channel and live stream

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:50:35+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/darren-till-vs-kelvin-gastelum-20793689)

Darren Till arrived late in New York but made weight for his middleweight debut against Kelvin Gastelum.
The Brit dismissed reports of visa issues as he landed in the Big Apple on Thursday, just 48 hours before he touches gloves with his rival.
But Till made weight on Friday and will now bid to prove he can be a contender at the higher weight having lost his welterweight world title shot to Tyron Woodley last year.
He also lost to Jorge Masvidal who takes on Nate Diaz in the main event at UFC 244 tonight with the winner being presented with the BMF belt by Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson.
Here is everything you need to know about tonight's fights...
The first fights on the early prelim card will start at 10.30pm GMT. The prelims will then begin at midnight with the main card starting at 2am.
Expect Till and Gastelum to be in the cage around 3.30am with Diaz and Masvidal following after.
The fights will be shown on BT Sport 1 in the UK with coverage starting at midnight.
The fights can be streamed by BT customers on BT Sport 1 using the website or app.
If you are not a BT customer but are an EE customer, you can sign up for a free trial and watch the fights at no cost. Click here to sign up

        Main card
      
Jorge Masvidal vs Nate Diaz
Kelvin Gastelum vs Darren Till
Stephen Thompson vs Vicente Luque
Derrick Lewis vs Blagoy Ivanov
Kevin Lee vs Gregor Gillespie

        Preliminary card
      
Corey Anderson vs Johnny Walker
Shane Burgos vs Makwan Amirkhani
Brad Tavares vs Edmen Shahbazyan
Andrei Arlovski vs Jairzinho Rozenstruik

        Early Preliminary card
      
Jennifer Maia vs Katlyn Chookagian
Lyman Good vs Chance Rencountre
Julio Arce vs Hakeem Dawodu
Till 7/4
Gastelum 4/9
Darren Till has been backed to be a success at middleweight by Dan Hardy.
The Liverpudlian suffered back-to-back defeats by Tyron Woodley and Jorge Masvidal at welterweight.
He steps up a division tonight against Kelvin Gastelum and Hardy is excited about the prospect.
"I have no concerns with Darren moving up to middleweight," he said.
"I had more concerns with him staying at welterweight, to be honest. For his last two fights I’ve been around him during fight week, particularly in Liverpool for Wonderboy, he was drawn, he was tired and hungry and thirsty.
"I don’t want to see a fighter like that before the biggest fight of their life. This Darren Till is fresh, happy, lively and comfortable. He’s moving so well.
"When a fighter feels good they look and move good."
