
# Ant and Dec thought their TV careers were over after life-changing year

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:21:03+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jefferies, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jefferies/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/ant-dec-thought-tv-careers-20820397)

Anthony McPartlin and Declan Donnelly have opened up about the changes in their lives that led to them thinking their TV careers could be over.
Speaking ahead of their documentary, Ant & Dec's DNA Journey, the Geordie duo have revealed that they were worried about what their futures held.
Asked if they ever thought the programme might not get made after they broke off from filming in 2017 when 43-year-old Ant's life went downhill.
Ant said: “I took a break from TV and Dec became a dad.
"Life dramatically changed for us. There were points we thought it was never gonna happen again.
“I'm glad we did carry on because it is one hell of a journey.”
Dec, 44, added: “After Ant took his break, we looked at all the projects we were doing and we looked at DNA (the programme DNA Journey) and we said 'how are we gonna get around that and fudge that'. Then we thought 'you can't'.
"It’s been two years and we thought we have to be honest with the audience and take them on the journey and explain why we’ve been on a two year gap.”
Ant added: “We've changed. We’ve lost a bit of weight thankfully from the opening scene.
"That was a hard watch. Who thought a beard was a good idea. Life has changed as well dramatically and we are different now.”
Dec has also admitted he thought he had “lost” best pal Ant forever when he went into rehab to fight drink and drug demons.
In emotional interviews in their new documentary, Ant admitted he feared he would never work again as he thought the public had “had enough” of him following his drink-driving conviction.
The pair speak openly about Ant's troubles in the middle of their documentary which had to take a two year break midway through filming when Ant was off screen and fighting his addictions.
Ant admitted: “Y'know the last few years have been quite emotional, hard, they have been testing I would say in terms of how strong your love is and how strong your friendship is."
Dec added: “It has been a tough couple of years and it has tested the bond we have shared since we were 13 years old.
"I was incredibly angry at the start, so angry.
"Disappointed that he didn't ever come to me and say 'I am struggling, I need you' because that is what I would do if the shoe was on the other foot. And he never came to me and that hurt me a lot."

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
