
# Dad-of-four knocked unconscious with single punch in disabled parking row

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:42:50+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/dad-four-knocked-unconscious-single-20830812)

A dad-of-four was knocked unconscious in a brutal one-punch attack after confronting a group for parking in a disabled bay.
David Fletcher, 48, was walking towards a shopping centre in Atwell, Perth in Western Australia when he saw a white Subaru sedan parked in the spot without a disabled parking permit.
He called the driver and her two passengers out and told them to find another parking spot.
David, who works as a mechanical fitter, told 9News : "They all started hurling abuse at me.
"This is a disabled bay for disabled people. You don't take advantage of that sort of thing."
 
The incident, which happened on Tuesday, was captured on CCTV at the carpark showing the moment a man in an orange t-shirt punches David in the head.
The blow sends him flying and he hits the ground on his back.
David was knocked out by the punch and he was left lying on the pavement until he gained conscious.
He said: "I remember the foul words coming out of the girl's mouth and really not much more."
 
David said he was 'blindsided' and punched in jaw by the 'cowardly' attack.
He walked to a nearby chemist asking for assistance and was later admitted to Fiona Stanley Hospital.
According to reports, he suffered bleeding from the head and a suspected concussion.
He was discharged later the same day but he continued having headaches and nausea.
"If I came across the same thing - doing the same in a disbaled bay again - I'd do the same," he added.
Atwell Police yesterday arrested a 23-year-old man with charge of an assault occasioning bodily harm. He will face a trial at court at a later date.
Officers also released the footage to the local council in an effort to find the driver.
In Australia, drivers found parking in a disabled spot without a permit can face a fine of $572 (£307) and one demerit point.
