
# Barcelona Players Show How Desperate They Are For Neymar To Come Home

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jason Pettigrove**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jasonpettigrove/2019/11/01/barcelona-players-show-how-desperate-they-are-for-neymar-to-come-home/)

It was the transfer saga of last summer.Not a day went by when the issue of who Neymar would be playing for at the start of this season wasn’t discussed.
Saturation point was reached long before transfer deadline day, with rumour and counter rumour keeping the headline writers busy for days on end.
The player himself had certainly made a rod for his own back too.
Suggesting that the best goal he scored in his career came for Barcelona against PSG clearly wasn’t a wise move.
Nor was publicly claiming he wanted to go ‘back home’ to the Camp Nou.
Neither statement was going to endear him to a French fanbase that turned out in their droves to greet him on the day he signed, and forced the club shop to order in mammoth extra stocks of his shirt.
Not anymore.
Before getting injured, he was still being booed weeks into the season, despite being the match winner on more than one occasion.
His desperation to leave is only matched, it seems, by the Barcelona players’ desperation to have him back.
In the murky world of football transfers, there’s no doubt that deals will be done that have been right on the borders of legality.
But rarely, if ever, can there have been a situation where players of a team are prepared to defer their own salaries in order to ensure a signing takes place.
Having already acquired Frenkie De Jong and Antoine Griezmann in the last window, Barcelona were looking at a problem with Financial Fair Play if they still wanted to add Neymar to the roster. And at a not insignificant cost of approximately $247.8m.
From the drip feeding of information available at the time, the suggestion was that Barcelona as a club were doing everything that they possibly could to ensure that ‘Operation Neymar’ was concluded successfully.
What wasn’t known until the past week was that such a deal included the offer, from senior players, to defer some of their wages, in order to make enough room in the budget to get the deal done.
Gerard Pique was one of the players who would’ve been happy to help and he was the one to mention that particular part of any potential deal.
Though he didn’t name any other players, given the closeness that Luis Suarez and Lionel Messi enjoyed with Neymar in a personal and professional sense, one can infer that they’d be similarly happy with the situation.
Such a revelation does bring a couple of things to the fore.
In order to make room for the Brazilian, other players would’ve needed to go. Ivan Rakitic and Ousmane Dembele were mentioned as makeweights at the time.
How are that pair going to feel knowing that their team-mates are doing everything in their power to bring about what would effectively be the termination of their employment with their current club?
Furthermore, rumours that it’s the senior players running the Barcelona dressing room and not Ernesto Valverde may not be without foundation, given the revelations.
In any event, the saga still isn’t over and there’s only a few more weeks until the January window opens for business...
