
# Twitter Has Some Questions for ABC's The Little Mermaid Live!

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Savannah Walsh**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a29710760/little-mermaid-live-twitter-reactions/?utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter)

Last night, ABC unveiled its first ever live musical event, The Little Mermaid: Live!. As has become tradition for productions including Rent: Live, Grease, and Peter Pan, Twitter quickly became a forum to candidly discuss the show.
The musical's cast included Auli’i Cravalho (Moana) as Ariel, Queen Latifah as Ursula, Graham Phillips (The Good Wife) as Prince Eric, John Stamos as Chef Louis, Shaggy as Sebastian, and Amber Riley (Glee) as the Emcee. The show also added in a few surprise elements. There was a cameo from Jodi Benson, the OG voice of Ariel in the animated movie, as well as some musical alterations, including a duet between Prince Eric and Ariel and the addition of "Her Voice," a song from the Broadway show.
Twitter took some time to reflect on the actual plot of the 1989 film in the year 2019 ("me as an adult realizing she lost her voice... for a man") as well as dissect ABC's splashy new production. First order of business: why was Shaggy's Sebastian costume sans crab claws? Seriously. Surrounded by dancers in crab costumes and a live audience with literal claws in the air, many found it, shall we say, fishy that Shaggy was clad in a red leather suit instead.
