
# Metro Vancouver board endorses 8-lane replacement for Massey Tunnel

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Wadhwani**

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/news/metro-vancouver-board-endorses-8-lane-replacement-for-massey-tunnel/)

Metro Vancouver’s board of directors has given their thumbs up to an eight-lane replacement project to fix the highly-congested George Massey Crossing.
The immersed-tube tunnel concept was endorsed by the board Friday following recommendations put forward by a task force dedicated to determining the next steps to fix the problematic bottleneck.

        
          ALSO READ: Bridge or tunnel? Metro Vancouver to decide on Massey crossing recommendation
        
      
Other options looked at by the task force included a six-to-eight-lane bridge and a more expensive deep-bored tunnel.
The approval marks a significant step in the years-long call by many Metro Vancouver mayors to fix the accident-prone crossing – a call to action met with a promise from the BC Liberals to be solved with a 10-lane bridge. But the Horgan government paused the project and ordered a third-party review before scrapping that option.
The newly-endorsed tunnel project includes nine conditions to the B.C. government, including First Nations and environmental concerns and that the replacement be complete by 2026-27.

        
          ALSO READ: B.C. premier hints at twin-tunnel plan for George Massey Tunnel
        
      
The province says on its website that public consultation is tentatively scheduled for November and December.
