
# Every Arsenal manager candidate rated and slated as Unai Emery's job remains under threat

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:01:33+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/every-arsenal-manager-candidate-rated-20822748)

Unai Emery blew his competition out of the water when he interviewed for the Arsenal job following Arsene Wenger's 22-year reign.
The Spaniard impressed then chief executive Ivan Gazidis in his interview by arriving with a pamphlet containing information on every first-team Arsenal player, detailing his findings on them and plans to help them improve.
He also explained how he's a hands-on boss who trawls through videos of previous performances to fix minute problems - something Wenger never did.
Things started positively for the Spaniard, but Emery is under pressure a little over a year on from his appointment, and other managers are being linked with his job.
Here we look at the managers Emery fended off in the first place.
Pros: Knows the club like the back of his hand, has watched the best manager of a generation, Pep Guardiola, win back-to-back Premier League titles.
Cons: Has no experiencing in football management, let alone the team the size of Arsenal.
Pros: Is a club legend so would lift the team, has experience managing in two countries.
Cons: Hasn't pulled up any trees at Nice. Before overseeing victory over Reims last Sunday the Ligue 1 club lost three matches on the trot.
Pros: One of the most popular names at Arsenal whose presence would lift the club and perhaps more importantly the fans.
Cons: Has had just one stint in management at Monaco, and things didn't work out for him. Danger of an Ole Gunnar Solskjaer situation occurring at Arsenal with his appointment.
Pros: Proven cup-winner having tasted title glory once with AC Milan and then five times on the trot with Juventus.
Cons: Dominated with the best team in the league - not unlike Emery at PSG - but, unlike Emery, failed to achieve much in European competitions.
Pros: Experienced manager who is used to working closely with youngsters, having lead Spain's Under-19s and Under-21s to European titles.
Cons: Showed disloyalty to his country ahead of the World Cup and failed when in charge of a big club like Real Madrid.
Pros: A progressive boss who has won trophies in two different countries with three clubs. Works well promoting youth players and has a clear philosophy.
Cons: Is yet to test himself at a big club, which comes with the added responsibility and pressure.
Pros: The Argentine is an incredibly experienced manager, who punched above his weight while in charge of Sevilla.
Cons: Struggled managing the superstars of his national team and eventually left by mutual consent following a poor 2018 World Cup run.
