
# Warren Leads Poll Showing Iowa Is Four-Way Race: Campaign Update

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:42:54+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Beene**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/biden-launches-4-million-ad-112337341.html)

(Bloomberg) -- Elizabeth Warren has emerged with a slight edge, and Joe Biden has fallen to fourth place in a new poll showing a tight four-way race in the 2020 Iowa causes, with fewer than 100 days to go.
Warren was the first choice of 22% of Iowa Democratic voters in a New York Times/Siena College poll released Friday. The poll had Bernie Sanders at 19%, Pete Buttigieg at 18% and Biden, once seen as the clear front-runner, trailing those three rivals with 17%.
The survey should raise alarms for Biden, who still leads in most national polls, but could be damaged by weak showings in the earliest primary and caucus states. The Iowa poll showed younger voters leaning left toward Warren and Sanders, while Biden is still the favorite candidate of older voters.
The Times/Siena survey, which was conducted Oct. 25-30, has a margin of error of plus-or-minus 4.7 percentage points.
Biden Launches $4 Million Ad Push in Iowa (7:23 a.m.)
Joe Biden is spending $4 million on broadcast and digital ads in Iowa, touting his his focus on the middle class ahead of the Feb. 3 caucus.
Similar to his Democratic rivals for the party’s presidential nomination, Biden is portraying himself as seeking to help average Americans, in contrast with President Donald Trump, who they argue is focused on the wealthiest.
“With less than 100 days until the Iowa caucus, we are blanketing the state on the air and online to remind voters of the striking differences between Donald Trump’s selfish and senseless actions and Joe Biden’s inclusive economic vision for the middle class,” Greg Schultz, Biden’s campaign manager, said in an emailed statement.
While Biden leads or is statistically tied in Iowa state polls, Elizabeth Warren and Pete Buttigieg, who have highly organized campaigns in Iowa, also get strong support among caucus-goers in the latest USA Today/Suffolk poll. -- Kasia Klimasinska
COMING UP
Fourteen presidential candidates, including Biden, Buttigieg, Bernie Sanders, Warren, are scheduled to speak Friday at the Liberty and Justice Celebration hosted by the Iowa Democratic Party in Des Moines.
On Saturday, eight Democratic presidential candidates will attend a fish fry in Cedar Rapids, hosted by freshman Democratic Representative Abby Finkenauer.
--With assistance from Kasia Klimasinska.
To contact the reporter on this story: Ryan Beene in Washington at rbeene@bloomberg.net
To contact the editors responsible for this story: Wendy Benjaminson at wbenjaminson@bloomberg.net, Steve Geimann
For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com
©2019 Bloomberg L.P.
