
# Pep Clarifies Controversial Mane Comment

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/pep-guardiola-clarifies-controversial-sadio-mane-comment/666888)

Following Jurgen Klopp's response to Pep Guardiola's controversial claim about Sadio Mane, the Manchester City boss has attempted to clarify what he meant when recently discussing Liverpool's Senegalese star.

        
          Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?
        
      
The Reds' German boss leapt to the defence of the 27-year-old on Monday, after Guardiola appeared to accuse the African superstar of sometimes going too ground too easily.
Klopp insisted Mane is not a diver, and also threw a sly dig the Spaniard's way by saying he will not get into City's continuous tactical fouling ploy, for which which they have received plenty of criticism in the past.
Guardiola has now addressed the matter once again, saying that the point of his previous comments was not to take aim at Mane for simulation.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"My son and my daughter always, when Liverpool win in the last minutes, say Liverpool are lucky. I tell them (they are) not," he said, according to the Liverpool Echo.
"What Liverpool has done this season and last season many times is because they have this incredible quality to fight until the end.
"That's why I said to my players – not just my son and daughter – that it is not lucky.
"Sometimes at 94 (minutes) against Leicester with the penalty, it was like 'wow'. That was the intention for my comment, but it was far from my intention to say that Sadio Mane is that type of player.
"Even with that, the ref and the VAR said penalty. Maybe I was wrong to think it wasn't a penalty.
"That's why I said to my players that it is not lucky. If it happens once or twice in a life then yes, but 10 or 12 or 13 times?
"That was the intention for my comment. Far away from my intention was to say Sadio is this type of player because I admire him a lot."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
City will take on the Premier League leaders at Anfield this coming Sunday, with the three points vital to both Guardiola and Klopp.
