
# After Whitefield, Haralur is all set to rise in protest on November 16 against civic authorities’ apathy to their issues

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/after-whitefield-haralur-is-all-set-to-rise-in-protest/articleshow/71928617.cms)

Another group of residents, this time of Haralur, are set to march in protest next week against the civic authorities’ apathy to their complaints. With several complaints being lodged from the area regarding the lack of basic infrastructure, residents say that the MLAs and corporators have shown no interest to resolve them. The protest will be held on November 16. About 5,000 residents are expected to participate in a five km march. Pranoy B, who lives on Parappana Agrahara Main Road said, “There are no streetlights, proper roads, drainage or solid waste management in the area. The stretch from Parappana Agrahara Main Road to Haralur is unfit for commuting. The road is filled with potholes and sewage water, leading to slow traffic movement on the stretch. Three areas comprise three wards – Singasandra, Bellandur and HSR Layout. No corporator or MLA is willing to take the responsibility for fixing the issues.” He said that it takes close to two hours to cover a stretch of four km. “We have learned that 65 crore had been allocated to develop the area last year but the authorities have not taken any action,” he adds. The area has over 5,000 high rise apartments. Pranoy added, “The population of the area has increased 20 times but adequate infrastructure has not been provided.” Another resident and an IT manager Gaurav Dubey said that the civic issues are similar to other parts of the city but the scale is worse in this area. “Traffic is not regulated and garbage is dumped illegally on the roadside. People can get severely injured as the potholes are not visible at night due to lack of streetlights,” he added. The residents said that they fear stepping out of the house. Ramakrishna Reddy, president of Haralur Somasundarapalya Residents Association, said that they have also been demanding a flyover or an underpass at Haralur. “We need to travel an extra two km from Sarjapur Road to take a U-turn towards Haralur Road. Heavy vehicles are also allowed to commute on this stretch during peak hours, making matters worse. We take this road to reach Electronics City and Sarjapur. The roads are narrow and the internal roads are dug by Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and never repaired. There are 12 schools on this stretch,” he said. The lakes are also in sad state. “Sewage is being let into Haralur and Somasundarapalya lakes. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said that they will need Rs 3 lakh to disconnect the sewage line and rejuvenate the lakes,” he added.
