
# 'I Loved Ronaldinho Most!'

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/manchester-united/i-loved-ronaldinho-most/666515)

After declaring his love for two of the greatest Brazilian players of all time, Manchester United’s Anthony Martial has explained why it was Ronaldinho he fell in love with more so than anyone else.

        
          10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
The 23-year-old Frenchman has handed Ole Gunnar Solskjaer a much-needed boost with his return from injury, after missing seven matches this season already due to a hamstring strain.
Starting in the Red Devils’ recent Premier League win over Norwich City, Martial scored a magical goal after linking up smartly with Marcus Rashford, and will now be looking to continue in a similar fashion.
In a recent interview, the Frenchman discussed his idols, saying that FC Barcelona legend Ronaldinho was a player who made him dream.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
"I would say my favourite players were the Brazilians, Ronaldo and Ronaldinho," he told United’s official website.
"They were both fantastic players with beautiful movement and grace. They made their matches great to watch.
"I mostly loved Ronaldinho, because he was a player who could make you dream, with his great big smile on the pitch, with his great technical skills.
“I think that combination of great technical skills and the terrific goals he could score, it’s that which inspires people."

        
          10 Stars Who've Scored 100 Goals Or More Under One Manager
        
      
Since his arrival at United in 2015, Martial has scored 52 goals in 181 matches for the club, assisting a further 30 strikes.
