
# Peloton's subscriber base, Q1 losses surge as it acquires Tonic Fitness for more supply chain control

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Larry Dignan**

Original: [ZDNet](https://www.zdnet.com/article/pelotons-subscriber-base-q1-losses-surge-as-it-acquires-tonic-fitness-for-more-supply-chain-control/)


        Peloton, the connected fitness, media and platform company, is expecting 885,000 to 895,000 connected fitness subscribers in fiscal 2020.
      
Peloton's connected fitness subscriber base more than doubled from a year ago in its first fiscal quarter and it acquired Tonic Fitness Technology, a bike manufacturing partner, to gain more control over its supply chain. Peloton is projecting 885,000 to 895,000 connected fitness subscribers for fiscal 2020.In its fiscal first quarter, Peloton, which recently launched its IPO said it ended the quarter with 562,774 connected fitness subscribers and a member base topping 1.6 million. The company reported a net loss of $49.8 million, or $1.29 a share, on revenue of $228 million, up 103% from a year ago. Peloton also reported a 94% retention rate over the last 12 months and there were 11.7 average monthly workouts per connected fitness subscriber. The company highlights how multiple industries and functions are going digital, but it's unclear whether Peloton can maintain its premium base when competitors loom. 
As for the outlook, Peloton projected second quarter connected fitness subscribers of 680,000 to 685,000 with revenue of $410 million to $420 million. The company added that its fiscal 2020 revenue will be between $1.45 billion and $1.50 billion. Peloton said in a shareholder letter:
The metrics highlight the moving parts behind Peloton, which is a vertically integrated company, but one that does everything from media to manufacturing. Key points from Peloton's shareholder letter include:
