
# Microsoft’s New Cloud Service Lets Users Try Other Companies’ Quantum Computers

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Giles**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/martingiles/2019/11/04/microsoft-cloud-computing-and-quantum-computers/)

Microsoft has unveiled a new service called Azure Quantum that pits it against companies like IBM and Canada’s D-Wave, which already offer access to quantum machines via the cloud. Microsoft’s offering is distinctive because it gives customers access to computers from three other companies—Honeywell, IonQ and Quantum Circuits Inc. Neither IBM nor D-Wave provide access to a range of other companies’ hardware. Speaking at Microsoft’s Ignite conference in Orlando, CEO Satya Nadella said its new “full-stack, open-cloud ecosystem” would give a significant boost to the company’s drive for quantum leadership.
No details were made available about the cost of the service, which will be rolled out over the next few months. A company spokesman says it wants to get feedback from early users before finalizing a pricing strategy.
The overall cloud business has been a star performer for the company, though revenue growth at the unit slowed to 59% in its latest fiscal quarter, down from 64% in the prior period. It recently scored a significant victory when it was awarded a coveted contract to provide a cloud storage system for the U.S. military that could be worth up to $10 billion.
The company’s decision to create its new cloud service comes as more and more businesses are looking to experiment with quantum machines, which tap the properties of quantum mechanics to achieve exponential leaps in processing power. The computers are still in their infancy, but the hope is they will eventually help businesses uncover things such as new materials and pharmaceuticals.
Unlike conventional computers, which encode information in bits that are either a 1 or a 0, quantum machines use quantum bits, or qubits, which are subatomic particles such as photons or electrons that can be in a kind of combination of 1 and 0 at the same time. Qubits can also influence one another at a distance via a process known as “entanglement.”
These exotic phenomena combine to make quantum machines faster than conventional ones at certain kinds of tasks. Google, which is also said to be planning a quantum cloud computing service, recently claimed it had demonstrated for the first time that a quantum computer could perform a calculation beyond the reach of even the most powerful conventional supercomputer—a milestone known as “quantum supremacy.”
Azure Quantum will use programming tools that Microsoft had already made available via the cloud and that have been downloaded more than 200,000 times. Customers will be able to run experiments on quantum simulators or on the computers of its partners, who have taken different approaches to developing qubits.
Both Honeywell and IonQ, a startup out of the University of Maryland, use individual ions trapped in electromagnetic fields, while Quantum Circuits, whose founders are from Yale, uses superconducting circuits that are cooled to temperatures colder than deep space.
Microsoft has yet to publicly unveil a working computer of its own, though it has multiple research initiatives under way in various labs around the world. It’s also working on other parts of the quantum technology stack, including things like quantum algorithms and systems for controlling qubits.
These control systems can be complex to build and operate. “The result often looks like a bird’s nest of wires,” says Krysta Svore, general manager of quantum software at Microsoft. This makes scaling machines beyond a few hundred qubits a challenge.
As part of its Azure Quantum announcement, Microsoft revealed researchers at its lab at the University of Sydney in Australia have developed a new approach that uses three wires to control tens of thousands of qubits generated using a specialized silicon chip.
Professor David Reilly, who masterminded the innovation at the university, claimed in a news release that the chip involved is “one of the most sophisticated micro-devices ever made” and could be key to scaling up quantum machines to tackle meaningful tasks.

        Corrections & Clarifications: This story has been updated to clarify that neither IBM nor D-Wave offer access to a range of other companies’ quantum hardware via the cloud.
      
