
# Another car burnt out in south Belfast's Holylands area

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brendan Hughes**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/another-car-burnt-out-in-south-belfast-s-holylands-area-1758673/)

A car has been burnt out in south Belfast's Holylands area in the latest in a spate of attacks.
Police received a report of a car on fire at Collingwood Avenue on Saturday.
A fortnight ago, five cars were severely damaged in overnight arson attacks along Collingwood Avenue and nearby Damascus Street.
Three cars were also damaged after being set alight around the same area in the early hours of October 7.
Police have previously said they were making enquiries into "any potential links" between these earlier attacks.
They urged anyone with information about the latest incident to phone them on the non-emergency number 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
Police said they are still working to establish the cause of the latest fire.
"A link to other attacks on cars in recent weeks would be one line of enquiry," a spokeswoman added.
Last week, a Belfast council committee held a special meeting to discuss anti-social behaviour in the Holylands.
It was announced that council officers and police would patrol the area over Halloween in a bid to crack down on noise and on-street drinking.
Complaints of anti-social behaviour in the Holyands area this year have already outstripped figures for the past six years.
So far this year, 1,491 complaints have been lodged – up almost 60 per cent on the whole of 2013.
Long-term residents have frequently complained of anti-social behaviour fuelled by an "oversaturation" of students living in the area.
Belfast City Council has said it works with residents, the PSNI and universities and colleges to address anti-social behaviour.
