
# PCB approaches CSA for T20 series in Pakistan

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:27:43+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/pcb-approaches-csa-for-a-t-20-series-in-pakistan?utm_medium=rss)


        After hosting Sri Lanka successfully and safely, PCB CEO Wasim Khan informed has approached the CSA for a bilateral series. While Khan also informed that the Sri Lanka series has opened gates to international cricket to the country, a source informed that CSA is positive about the series.
      
The Pakistan Cricket Board is very keen to bring international cricket back to their country on the back of the Sri Lanka limited-overs series. While they are already negotiating with Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, PCB CEO Wasim Khan has also confirmed about talks with Cricket South Africa about a T20 series.
Confirming previous results, Khan told media that SLC is positive about playing a couple of Test matches in Pakistan and is planning to send a full-strength squad this time around. Khan also didn't forget to acknowledge the importance of Sri Lanka series, which took place last month, in shaping Pakistan cricket’s future.
"The gates to international cricket returning properly to Pakistan are open and there is no doubt that the recent tour by the Sri Lankan team to play the T20 and ODI series has helped us a lot," TOI quoted Khan.
While Khan informed that Sri Lanka will be confirming the tour, which will include two Test matches in Rawalpindi and Karachi, within a  week, he also shared that the Proteas might tour in late March next year.
"We are hopeful they will come in late March as the series will also help both teams prepare for the World T20 Championship in October," he said.
With Bangladesh’s women team and U-16 side is currently playing a bilateral series in Pakistan, Khan is confident that it would lead Bangladesh to send their senior side for T20 and Test series next year.
In the meantime, a reliable source, according to a TOI report, has informed about CSA being positive about the series and the Proteas might very well tour Pakistan for the T20 series.
Pakistan is also looking forward to hostING England women’s team in Malaysia after ECB requested for a neutral venue, this December, where they also had hosted Australia. But before the series, PCB is looking forward to Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) call whether to host Pakistan women’s team for the ICC women’s league matches.
