
# Bar Erects Sign Telling Rude Customers To ‘Say Please, You C*nts’

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:16:44+00:00**

Author: **Emma Rosemurgey**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/life/bar-erects-sign-telling-rude-customers-to-say-please-you-cnts/)


        As someone who used to work in a bar, I can confirm there’s nothing worse than people forgetting their manners the minute they’ve had drink.
      
That’s why it comes as no surprise that a London bar is so sick of rude customers, it has taken a drastic stance to demand some respect.
And how do you demand the respect of a rowdy drunken rabble? Well, you erect a prominent sign warning punters to ‘SAY PLEASE, YOU C*NTS!’, of course.
General manager Lewis Farrell of Bacchus Late Bar in Kingston upon Thames, London, said they had experienced a lot of ‘quite rude and aggressive’ customers thanks to ‘alcohol being in the mix’. No surprise there.
Although the general rule of working in the service industry is ‘the customer is always right’, the 27-year-old asked ‘where do you draw the line?’ when looking after staff.
The sign, chalked up in capitals on a black board with the word ‘please’ underlined, now stands proudly and in full view of the bar seven nights a week.

        Lewis, from Kingston upon Thames, London, said:
      
Incredibly, Lewis claims the x-rated sign has worked, insisting people actually are being more polite when ordering drinks when they have it up. It’s a miracle!
Punters visiting the bar have even shared photos of the sign on social media, where it has mostly been praised as something that is ‘much needed in this day and age’.

        Lewis continued:
      
The staff at Bacchus Late Bar, which has been open for nearly 30 years, are a long standing small group who are ‘like a family’.
Lewis said a lot of other bartenders and restaurant workers who come to the independent venue say they wish they could follow in its footsteps in their own bars – but he said this is a lot harder in chains.

        Lewis, who has worked in hospitality since he was 18, said:
      
Lewis said the sign has even become a bit of a conversation piece, adding that they’ve had multiple signs which say things like ‘be kind to your staff – we remember our first beer too’. Another one says ‘please don’t make the staff cry, it reduces productivity’.

        The manager continued:
      
Last week, a picture of the sign was put on Facebook with the caption, ‘no caption needed’, and it racked up loads of support from social media users who hailed it ‘much needed in this day and age’.
Another person commented, ‘I think staff should be able to call c*nts as they are and set fire to rude demanding f*ckers.’

        A third wrote:
      
Well, it’s not just there for decoration guys. Play nice.

        Emma Rosemurgey
      
Emma Rosemurgey is an NCTJ trained Journalist at UNILAD. She graduated from the University of Central Lancashire in Preston and started her career in regional newspapers before joining the LADbible Group team in 2017.
