
# Microsoft Teams gains traction faster than expected, catches Plantronics flat footed

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:01:14+00:00**

Author: **Larry Dignan**

Original: [ZDNet](https://www.zdnet.com/article/microsoft-teams-gains-traction-faster-than-expected-catches-plantronics-flat-footed/)


        Plantronics outlook for the third quarter and fiscal year is well below expectations. Why? Enterprises are moving from Skype for Business to Microsoft Teams at a rapid clip and the unified communications vendor's product lineup is just catching up.
      
The transition from Microsoft Skype for Business to Teams is going so quickly that Plantronics is stuck with old gear it'll have to write down due to excess inventory. Plantronics, which acquired Polycom and now refers to itself as Poly, reported a second quarter loss of 65 cents a share on revenue of $462 million, down from $483 million a year ago. Non-GAAP earnings for the second quarter were $1.24 a share. Wall Street was looking for non-GAAP second quarter earnings of $1.33 a share on revenue of $483 million. And it got worse from there. For the third quarter, Plantronics projected revenue of $383 million to $423 million with a non-GAAP profit of a penny a share to 31 cents a share. Wall Street was looking for non-GAAP third quarter earnings of $1.59 a share on revenue of $512 million. For the year, Plantronics projected revenue between $1.72 billion to $1.81 billion, well below Wall Street estimates of $1.95 billion. Earnings guidance for the year also fell well short of expectations.
Given the miss, it's no wonder that Plantronics shares are down about 37% in early trading Wednesday, but the dynamics behind the quarter are worth a look in the collaboration and smart office battles.Consider the following:
Plantronics had an aging product line that fell behind the need for native support for the likes of Zoom and other cloud centric unified communication tools. At Microsoft Ignite, Plantronics launched the Poly Studio X Series, a set of all-in-one video bars for native Microsoft Teams meetings. The company also launched the Poly CCX Series phones for Teams, Calisto 3200 speaker phone and a set of headsets and other tools.
Now that launch is late since the gear won't be available to December. As a result Plantronics has a set of Skype for Business end points that won't be worth much. Plantronics is moving to shed inventory now.
Joseph Burton, CEO of Plantronics, said:
Microsoft Teams is eclipsing Skype for Business among enterprises. As a victim of a few Skype for Business calls, I can't say I'm surprised Teams is doing well. Skype for Business was terrible. But the transition to Teams amid the traction for Zoom and a bevy of rivals ranging from Cisco to BlueJeans is notable.
Burton said:
Plantronics has self-inflicted wounds. The reality is that Plantronics has refreshed its entire product line, but it was late to various market shifts. Logitech hasn't made the same mistakes and appears to be ahead of the curve when it comes to being an agnostic player in unified communications as it builds gear for the various unified communications vendors. Burton sees the landscape well, but the execution has been lagging. Burton said:
