
# Carly Simon Remixes 'You're So Vain' Lyrics to Slam Trump

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:31:02+00:00**

Author: **David Ng**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/entertainment/2019/11/01/carly-simon-remixes-youre-so-vain-lyrics-to-slam-trump/)

She also dismissed the numerous allegations of sexual harassment and assault against President Clinton, saying “whatever lesson he had to learn, he learned it.”
Simon told The Guardian that she met Donald Trump once at at a luncheon in New York for Benazir Bhutto, the late prime minister of Pakistan.
She recalled that Trump initially paid no attention to her, but claims that he changed his tune after the singer met privately with Bhutto.
“Obviously I had all of a sudden become important through the eyes of Donald Trump. So he was very anxious to meet me and invited me to Mar-a-Lago and was all over me like ugly on an ape,” she told the British newspaper.
Simon said she turned down the offer “because I thought he was kind of repulsive.”
The Guardian noted that Simon’s hit single “You’re So Vain” seems “spookily apt for Trump.”
“He is so vain, that’s for sure, and not in the best possible way. He doesn’t bring humour to the word. In the song, hopefully, the person could wink at himself in the mirror because he got the joke,” Simon said.
“I don’t think there’s much interest outside himself. What will happen with a narcissist is that they’re interested in themselves and anything that’s an extension of themselves, perhaps their children, but he’s not interested in the philosophy of great thinkers. I suspect.”
This isn’t the first time that Simon has used “You’re So Vain” to attack President Trump.
In the run-up to the 2016 election, she allowed the song to be used in an anti-Trump political commercial created by the left-wing Patriotic Artists & Creatives PAC.
