
# Hollyoaks' Rory Douglas-Speed talks 'challenging whirlwind' after birth of baby son

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:49:19+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/hollyoaks-rory-douglas-speed-talks-20834568)

Hollyoaks actor Rory Douglas-Speed has confessed fatherhood is both "amazing" and "terrifying", as he opened up on returning to set for the first time since baby son Reggie was born.
The new dad, who plays Joel Dexter on the Channel 4 soap, welcomed his adorable baby boy with fiancée Nadine Mulkerrin last month.
Rory spoke exclusively to Mirror Online and confessed it was "challenging" returning to work with the little one and his mum at home, but said he was finding the whole experience "a whirlwind".
He explained: "It's crazy, it's like everything anybody ever explained it as or tells you.
 
"It's terrifying but so exciting, it's been a whirlwind few weeks and being back here has made it a little bit more difficult and a little bit more challenging, but no it's amazing and we're both loving it."
On being back to work, he revealed the return of co-star Jamie Lomas, who plays on-screen dad Warren Fox, has been a breath of fresh hair and made his return "a ball".
The star also admitted taking a nap or two if he has time between filming, getting as much sleep as he can around the couple's sleepless nights.
He said: "Yeah, I’m a lot more tired than I usually am which I think is a given.
"It's brilliant cos there's a new energy on set with Jamie coming back and it's been a ball so far.
"I’m loving it and I don’t tell Nadine this but if I’ve got a couple of hours off in the afternoon, I go for a sleep in the green room!"
 
The actor also shared his hopes of exploring a darker side of his character Joel, ahead of his dad's comeback.
He said: "I think it's different for a character, I’ve played nicey nicey for three years and I've only had one or two scenes where I turn it up a bit and to be honest, I enjoyed it.
"It's challenging playing a villain-esque character because the audience can immediately turn on you, but if you're gifted like Grace Black or like Warren Fox, or Sienna, it can be brilliant for a character and it can give longevity in that if you get it right and play it right it could be excellent. I'd love to get my teeth into that."

        Hollyoaks airs weeknights at 6:30pm on Channel 4, with the next episode at 7pm on E4.
      
