
# Blizzard Announces ‘Diablo 4’ With A Stunning, Nine Minute Trailer, Reveals Classes, Gameplay

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/01/blizzard-announces-diablo-4-with-a-stunning-nine-minute-trailer/)

I said they were going for shock and awe to extract themselves from recent controversies, and Blizzard is starting off BlizzCon strong with the official reveal of Diablo 4 in a nine minute cinematic trailer that echoes their best entries from the past.Read our BlizzCon liveblog here.
The trailer (spoilers follow, if you can spoil a trailer, I suppose), follows three adventurers in some ancient ruin and one scholar who seems to be accidentally along for the ride. As the monsters threaten to consume them, they take refuge in a summoning pit area described by a new, mysterious figure as a “gate.”
I would probably just start by watching the trailer and then we can talk about it further.
One of the adventurers takes the form of a new, evil figure that I cannot place and is not named in the trailer, a bald, grey skin vampire-looking guy who completes the blood ritual and with the scholar’s help, summons Lilith.
Lilith has long been rumored to be a key part of Diablo 4 from recent leaks, and it appears that she’s going to be the main villain this time around. It’s been a long time since we’ve seen her, and you may know her from Diablo lore if you’re a superfan.
Lilith is the daughter of Mephisto, the Lord of Hatred and famed Diablo 2 adversary. She is Queen of the Succubi, and as lover of archangel Inarius, birthed the first Nephalem. As in, us. Our Barbarians and Wizards and Paladins and Druids who fight the legions of evil. Lilith was indeed an enemy we briefly fought in Diablo 2, but she has a massive lore page you can read up on if you want to know her full history.
It appears that with Diablo down, Lilith is poised to take up his mantle of the seat of evil power in the world after previously being a somewhat minor character. I’m unclear who the grey man is who helps summoner, but I wonder if he could be one of her “children,” a Necromancer. Need to investigate that further.
What is not given in the new trailer is a release date or release window for Diablo 4, and I would be stunned if we see it before 2021. Perhaps Blizzard will speak about it more over the course of BlizzCon, but for now all we can do is hyper analyze this lengthy trailer for clues.
Update: Blizzard has just released a PR sheet on three of the classes coming to the game:
These are not all the classes, but these three are playable at the show.
It’s been confirmed that the new map will be one, giant landmass, where players can encounter each other in the wild, teaming up or even fighting each other. It’s coming to PC, PS4 and Xbox One, and presumably next-gen consoles, but no date for its release has been revealed.
Update 2: And now we also have a shorter, three minute gameplay trailer as well:
