
# The Morning Show: why the messy #MeToo drama is both hit and miss

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:19+00:00**

Author: **Adrian Horton**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/06/the-morning-show-jennifer-aniston-metoo)


        The star-studded, $15m-an-episode series is a scramble of bad dialogue and thinly sketched characters yet its handling of sexual politics is grimly transfixing
      
It takes until over halfway through the second episode of Apple TV+’s The Morning Show – after Jennifer Aniston’s genuinely impressive return to TV as an exposure-steeled morning news anchor, after the reveal of her co-star Reese Witherspoon’s bad brunette wig, after 90 minutes of taking in what an alleged $15m an episode can buy in set design — for me to knee-jerk pause the show.
I needed extra time to ponder a line delivered by Chip Black (Mark Duplass), the fictional Morning Show’s executive producer, who arrives on his #MeToo-deposed former anchor Mitch Kessler’s (Steve Carell) doorstep to beg him to stand down days after his firing. Kessler – clearly based on the former Today show host Matt Lauer and, at this point, fired for undisclosed reports of sexual misconduct – compares the #MeToo movement to McCarthyism, a spineless mob with no regard for his own defense. Fine, Black responds: “I’ll say it – we’re being too fast to judge men in the court of public opinion. I agree with you. The whole #MeToo movement is probably an overcorrection for centuries of bad behavior that more enlightened men like you and me had nothing to do with.”
I hit pause and thought, sincerely: “Oh shit, they really wrote this?” It’s a bold choice for Apple TV+’s marquee original show – a line that seems more like a summary of a certain strain of op-ed than the natural flow of conversation and one impossible to process solely within the world of the show, even if Kessler’s case didn’t overlap so blatantly with Lauer’s. Maybe I was missing something, I wondered; at this point, viewers don’t know the specific allegations against Kessler or anything about the women who made them – what, then, was the point of airing this out? Or of hearing Kessler defiantly declare: “At first they came for the rapists and I did not speak up, because I am not a rapist. And then they came for the powerful men, and you did not speak out, because you are not a powerful man”?
If this is a portrait of male defensiveness and denial in the wake of #MeToo, it’s a messy, haphazard one, somehow both on the nose on what fascinates us and totally obtuse in filtering that toward an insightful end. And yet, I found it impossible to look away. On some level, it’s deeply compelling to imagine what these conversations, between people whose power is far too massive for the vast majority of us to comprehend, look like. The mechanisms and beliefs that protected men like Lauer for years were so obscure or coded that the illusion of getting a glimpse of them in action, even a quasi-fictional one, is seductive. But I think it’s also simpler than that; on a level that’s more instinct than intellect, I just want to see TV grapple with #MeToo directly, in the real world of virality and bad takes, even if it’s messy, even if I frequently pause and shout “NO!” at the dialogue.
Since the New York Times and New Yorker reporting on Harvey Weinstein unleashed the deluge of sexual harassment and abuse stories under the banner of #MeToo, there have been repeated calls for better, less reductive conversations about the movement – a focus on what happens to the women who come forward instead of the toppled men, for example, or a shift from headlines to healing. #MeToo has radically unmasked systems of abusive power in the United States, systems of silence and corrosive protection – especially in the media, where it has done an unprecedented job of removing toxic stars from power, even if their poisonous orbits have, as is becoming clear in books such as She Said and especially Ronan Farrow’s Catch and Kill, remained largely in place.
