
# You could inherit a Scottish castle and £370,000 if you have one of these surnames

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:17:51+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Hilary Mitchell, Ben Weich, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/you-could-inherit-scottish-castle-17192610)

If you have one of these surnames you could inherit a Scottish castle and £370,000.
The Government has published a list of unclaimed estates north of the border, with hundreds of thousands of pounds in assets up for grabs.
435 empty Scottish estates worth up to £370,000 are available to claim.
The unclaimed estates are left lying there after their owners died either without making a will or without identifying a next of kin.
Cash, land, assets and homes - some as large as  mansions and castles  - could be up for grabs, reports the Mirror.
Some of the more unusual surnames on the list include Carlin, Hunniball, Malone-Philban and Raube.
When a person dies in Scotland without leaving a will detailing their desired benefactors, any unclaimed assets automatically fall under the care of  the Crown, and are then placed in the care of The Office of Queen’s and Lord Treasurer’s Remembrancer.
In March 2016, the Succession Act passed by the Scottish Parliament made the process of claiming unwanted estates easier, removing the requirement to obtain a 'bond of caution' - a type of insurance provided only by a small number of firms in the UK.
The estates will eventually revert to the Crown if no next of kin are identified.
 
If you think you are entitled to claim an estate, applications can be submitted  here  .
You can download the list for the rest of Scotland  here  .
There are thought to currently be more than 8,000 unclaimed estates in England and Wales.
This summer, London pensioner Margaret Abbotts inherited more than £300,000 from a half sister she never knew she had, after she was contacted by a law firm specialising in forensic genealogy.
Advice on unclaimed estates in England and Wales is available  here  .
