
# Roads leading to Wolverhampton train station shut as police deal with 'man on bridge'

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:42:54+00:00**

Author: **Oprah Flash, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/oprah-flash/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/roads-leading-wolverhampton-train-station-17206859)

Busy roads in Wolverhampton city centre have been shut during rush hour following a police incident at the train station.
Police officers were called to reports of a man on a bridge on Railway Drive this evening (November 5) - just after 6pm amid concerns for his welfare.
The surrounding roads have been shut and delays have been reported on the West Midlands Railway line between Wolverhampton and Birmingham.
Officers are concerned for the welfare of the man and remain at the scene.
A spokesman for West Midlands Police said: "Police were called to Railway Drive in Wolverhampton city centre at 6.10pm today following concerns for the welfare of a man on a bridge. Officers remain at the scene and road closures are in place."
Delays have also been reported on the West Midlands Railway in between Wolverhampton and Birmingham due to trespassers on the railway.
It is believed commuters will experience line disruptions up until 8pm this evening (November 5).
A spokesman for West Midlands Railway took to Twitter to warn passengers of the delays.
Samaritans (116 123) samaritans.org operates a 24-hour service available every day of the year. If you prefer to write down how you’re feeling, or if you’re worried about being overheard on the phone, you can email Samaritans at jo@samaritans.org , write to Freepost RSRB-KKBY-CYJK, PO Box 9090, STIRLING, FK8 2SA and visit www.samaritans.org/branches to find your nearest branch.
CALM (0800 58 58 58) thecalmzone.net has a helpline is for men who are down or have hit a wall for any reason, who need to talk or find information and support. They're open 5pm to midnight, 365 days a year.
Childline (0800 1111 ) runs a helpline for children and young people in the UK. Calls are free and the number won’t show up on your phone bill. PAPYRUS (0800 068 41 41) is a voluntary organisation supporting teenagers and young adults who are feeling suicidal.
Depression Alliance is a charity for people with depression. It doesn’t have a helpline, but offers a wide range of useful resources and links to other relevant information depressionalliance.org Students Against Depression is a website for students who are depressed, have a low mood or are having suicidal thoughts. Bullying UK is a website for both children and adults affected by bullying studentsagainstdepression.org The Sanctuary (0300 003 7029 ) helps people who are struggling to cope - experiencing depression, anxiety, panic attacks or in crisis. You can call them between 8pm and 6am every night.There are other depression charities.
 
The tweet reads: "Due to trespassers on the railway between Wolverhampton and Birmingham New Street, train services running through these stations may be delayed. Disruption is expected until 20:00. Keep up-to-date with all things Wolverhampton on our  Wolverhampton Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area. 
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the  Black Country Crime Watch  Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.
