
# NZ vs ENG | Shane Bond inclined towards England's bowling coach job

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:42:00+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/nz-vs-eng-shane-bond-inclined-towards-englands-bowling-coach-job?utm_medium=rss)


        Former New Zealand fast bowler Shane Bond is keen on taking up the role of England's bowling coach as Chris Silverwood has been promoted to become the Head Coach of the team. Bond is currently working as New Zealand's stand-in bowling coach in the absence of Shane Jurgensen, who is on a short break.
      
With the appointment of Chris Silverwood as England's head coach, the position of England's bowling coach is up for grabs and Shane Bond is keen to make that position his own after showing his desire and interest to work with the English team. Darren Gough will temporarily be the bowling consultant for England in their Test series against the Black Caps and once Jurgensen is back from his break, Bond will be free and will be looking to join the English team management as a bowling coach.
“Whatever you’re doing as a coach, you want something that’s going to excite you, hopefully make you better, present a different opportunity – I think you look at everything that comes across your door," the 44-year-old told County Press.
“I know all the English guys, I caught up with them in Christchurch when they came down for their pre-season tournament, I really enjoyed being with the team and liked the guys,” Bond added.
Bond has the experience of working for many teams as a bowling coach like the Sydney Thunder in the Big Bash League, the Mumbai Indians in the IPL, etc. and has also worked with the New Zealand national team for over two and half years till the 2015 World Cup. This experience of knowing what to expect in different conditions will come in handy for any team that hires him as a bowling coach. He believes he has the capability to rightly guide this England team who at the moment have got some fantastic young pacers like Sam Curran, Jofra Archer, etc He also said that it is the pace bowlers who have caused the maximum damage in the World Cup namely Lockie Ferguson and Jofra Archer and believes that these two will be crucial for their respective teams in the Eng vs NZ series.
"I think you can see the impact he and someone like Lockie Ferguson had at the World Cup, the two teams who made the final arguably had the two fastest bowlers," said Bond.
“When you’ve got bowlers who operate over 150kmh and can bowl like those two can then it’s never comfortable, particularly when you get down to six, seven, eight, nine, 10 and 11," he added.
“There’s no doubt Jofra’s going to have an impact in the Test series coming up,” Bond concluded.
