
# Aston Martin DBX interior officially revealed

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Writer**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/aston-martin-dbx-interior-officially-revealed-414796)

The DBX’s interiors feature copious amounts of leather and other elements, reinforcing Aston Martin’s opulent image; SUV to be revealed in full on November 20 in China.
Aston Martin has released an image of the upcoming DBX SUV’s interior and has announced that its first high-riding model will make its official debut in Beijing, China, on November 20.
The DBX’s cabin has copious amounts of leather, seeking to embody the firm's characteristic blend of comfort and opulence. Visible details include perforated leather seats, an expansive panoramic glass roof, and wood-finished interior door handles.
The details in the image confirm those from previously seen spy photos, which showed that Aston would continue to use Mercedes-sourced switchgear and technology, combined with its own bespoke trim.
A previous teaser showed a portion of the car that wasn’t clad in its now-familiar prototype camouflage, revealing that a chunky black plastic rear bumper will be available. Boot space was then confirmed as well, with the DBX's 632-litre rear load space giving it a significant practicality advantage over the Bentley Bentayga. 
The new range of accessories, available from the model's launch in international markets, includes several option packs to suit the owner's hobbies and pastimes. The Snow Pack, for example, contains a boot warmer, ski bag, roof-mounted ski rack and a set of snow chains. The Pet Pack, meanwhile, brings a bumper protector, a portable washer and a cabin divider, while the more conventional Touring Pack comprises a tailored luggage set with first aid kit and under-seat locker.  
Additional packages include the Essentials Pack, Event Pack, Interior Protection Pack and Expression Pack. Aston Martin says it has "worked with its trusted brand partners to ensure that it is offering the best solutions to customers, whatever the usage, journey or destination".
As we had reported earlier, the DBX will get an AMG-sourced twin-turbo V8 that produces 550hp and will rival the Bentley Bentayga, Lamborghini Urus and Rolls-Royce Cullinan. While the British carmaker has not yet revealed whether it will bring the model to India, its competition is already on sale here.
