
# England’s varied attack to give them the edge in Rugby World Cup final

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:45:16+00:00**

Author: **Ben Ryan**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/blog/2019/nov/01/england-south-africa-rugby-world-cup-final)


        Eddie Jones’s team have the ability to break down South Africa’s traditional power game and win a tight contest
      
I think England will beat South Africa in the World Cup final. I feel it not because of hard statistics, nor because emotions are getting the better of me. Here’s my reasoning.
In attack, South Africa have moved back to their more traditional power game and it has given them certainty on the field. The Springboks under their excellent coach, Rassie Erasmus, are all on the same page.
When they kick they chase hard to apply real pressure to the opposition. Scrum-half Faf de Klerk didn’t kick that well in the semi-final against Wales, but the chase often made an average kick reap great returns. They have some powerful carriers both in the backs and the forwards and they don’t risk the unusual or the sublime in their attack. That means they may find it harder to erode the better defences with movement or late offloads but they will have the right people in the right places to keep ball for extended periods of time. They play a territory-based game like almost all the other teams but perhaps a little more scripted.
I see a version of how Saracens play being used in a similar fashion by the men in green and gold, and Sarries haven’t exactly been short of a trophy or two recently. When they are firing on all cylinders, the Boks are hard to stop.
So, how might England do that? They will know what’s coming from South Africa. Although much can change on the field in a game, tactically the South Africans will not change 95%-plus of what they have been doing. A lineout or kick-off variation may well be introduced but England will be prepped for most eventualities.
England’s players need clear understanding of their roles and need to make their tackles and “second man” decisions well. Holding discipline is crucial as a penalty given away will mean either three points to South Africa or a kick to touch and another long period of defending. England proved they can do defence in long periods against Australia in the quarter-final and it will be the same again here.
Steve Borthwick, the England forwards coach, hasn’t got much column space over the last couple of months but he has created a fantastic lineout operation and any turnover ball will be crucial.
The same goes for the ruck. Sam Underhill and Tom Curry will get multiple turnovers. I say that on the evidence of their performance against the All Blacks in the semi‑final and it is their USP. From what I have seen, England will have enough to negate anything thrown, carried or kicked to them.
With the ball, England have been good and varied. I didn’t think George Ford at 10 with Owen Farrell at 12 was the best combination for the big games and I got that monumentally wrong. Ford was superb against New Zealand and the balance of the way they have probed and moved the opposition defences this tournament has been excellent.
They will want to stretch the Springboks with width and they will be able to do that with some of the ball carriers at their disposal. Ben Youngs can orchestrate that too and gives another attacking link closer to the source of the ball.
England have been good at getting out of their defensive third and turnovers have been rare. I have also liked the subtle first-phase attacking options that England have created.
In the last few seasons, teams have in my view attacked more off a scrum or lineout. They set something up rather than try to score or line-break first. England have done that a lot in the past but recently they genuinely look like they are trying to score from first phase. It’s refreshing and exciting.
South Africa will throw line speed at England to try to cut down space and time. The space between defence and attack will be narrowed and then, when the collisions happen, the 2007 winners will hope to suffocate England further by attritional hits that will shallow the breath even more. If they can get big legal tackles that make an England clearer at the ruck mistime his clean, or a support player overrun the ball, then the Boks will slow or turn over the attack of England. They can do that, but doing it for 80 minutes is incredibly hard, especially when you add the variation in England’s point of attack.
South Africa are a team that will give everything from a physical point of view and you can almost see their togetherness as a group by the way they play.
It won’t be a big margin but the form and formula England have tips the balance their way.
