
# Alia Bhatt to learn Kathiawadi language for her role in Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Gangubai?

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:23:05+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/alia-bhatt-to-learn-kathiawadi-language-for-her-role-in-sanjay-leela-bhansalis-gangubai/articleshow/71923230.cms)

Working with maverick filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali has been on Alia Bhatt’s bucket list. She was presented with the opportunity to play the lead in SLB’s ‘Gangubai Kathiawadi’, wherein she will play the titular role. And to portray her character perfectly, Alia will start learning a new language. According to news portal, Alia’s character of Gangubai will see her speak Kathiawadi, a language spoken by the Kathis in Saurashtra and she will soon start learning the new lingo. In the past, Alia has learnt Tamil for her role in ‘2 States’ and tried to speak Urdu for her role in ‘Raazi’.
Earlier, Sanjay Leela Bhansali was in talks with Priyanka Chopra to play the lead in ‘Gangubai Kathiawadi’ and it was then titled 'Heera Mandi'. Eventually it was Alia Bhatt who bagged the film. 'Gangubai Kathiawadi' is based on a chapter from Husain Zaidi's novel 'Mafia Queens Of Mumbai'. The film will reportedly hit the screens on September 11, 2020.
Apart from this, Alia will also be seen in superhero drama ‘Bhrahmastra’ with rumoured boyfriend Ranbir Kapoor. The actress has also been shooting with her father Mahesh Bhatt for ‘Sadak 2’, which is scheduled to hit the screens in July 2020.
