
# Five London stabbings in two hours as night of terror across capital continues

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:35:12+00:00**

Author: **Abigail O&#39;Leary**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/five-london-stabbings-two-hours-20792337)

Five stabbings have occurred in London within two hours in a night of terror across the capital.
Police were called to reports of stabbings three locations in the city, including Barking, Hammersmith and Beckenham.
In Barking, east London, two teenagers were stabbed near the station at 5:55pm.
Officers from the Metropolitan Police were alerted to reports of a man seen with a knife around Station Parade.
When they arrived they found two males, both believed to be aged 16, with stab injuries.
Paramedics from London Ambulance Service attended the scene near Barking station and rushed the two boys to hospital for treatment
Their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening.
A male teenager has been arrested on suspicion of actual bodily harm and will be taken to an east London police station for questioning.
The crime scene still remains in place while officers investigate.
Barking and Dagenham Police tweeted: "A section 60 order has been put in place in the area of the A406 between A124 and A13, A13 between A406 and Upney Lane; Upney Lane between A124 and A13 and A124 between A406 and A13 until 7am tomorrow after two 16-yr-olds were stabbed in Station Parade.
In another stabbing in west London two men were taken to hospital after a reported fight between two groups.
A police tweet read: “Police were called at 19:16hrs on Friday, 1 November to Abdale Road, Hammersmith and Fulham after reports of an altercation involving a group of males.
"Officers attended with LAS and found two men, aged 21 and 19, suffering from stab injuries."
No arrests have been made over the Abdale Road stabbing.
The Police tweet added: "A Section 60 Order has been authorised for the Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham from 19:30hrs to 07:00hrs on 2 November."
In a third stabbing incident of the night, police were called to Churchfields Road in Beckenham shortly after 8pm.
Bromley Police tweeted: "Police were alerted by LAS at around 20:02hrs after a male [age unknown] was found suffering from a stab injury in Churchfields Road.
"The male was taken to hospital. We await an assessment of his condition.
"No arrests. Police remain on scene."
