
# ISL 2019-20 | I think at the end we deserved the win, says Kai Heerings

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:30:30+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/07/isl-2019-20-i-think-at-the-end-we-deserved-the-win-says-kai-heerings?utm_medium=rss)


        NorthEast United FC's Dutch defender Kai Heerings has expressed his thoughts on the solitary goal win against hosts Hyderabad FC at the GMC Balayogi Stadium on Wednesday. The central defender also spoke about Highlanders defence, hailed goalscorer Maximilliano, and the travelling NorthEast fans.
      
NorthEast United defeated hosts Hyderabad FC by a late penalty from Argentine forward Maximiliano Barreiro at the GMC Balayogi Athletic Stadium in Hyderabad on Wednesday. Shankar Sampngraj's handball in the box at the 86th minute was the turning point in the game.
NorthEast United's new Dutch defender Kai Heerings, who made ten clearances at the back even in the absence of partner Mislav Komoroski in the second half, was instrumental in getting the clean sheet and believes that they were lucky to get the penalty.
“I think at the end we deserved the win. As I said before, it was very difficult. We were lucky to get the penalty.” said Kai Heerings at an exclusive post-match interview with the ISL website.
The Highlanders are unbeaten with two clean sheets in four games and are top of the table with eight points. Kai Heerings, with Mislav Komosroski and Indians Reagen Singh and Rakesh Pradhan, formed a successful partnership at the defence and the defender went ahead to hail his team's defensive display.
“I think in the last four games we did pretty good, we did it in our style. I think defensively we are super strong, and we have another clean sheet today to prove it.” said the 28-year-old.
In a big blow to the Highlanders, star Ghanian striker Asamoah Gyan was injured in the second half and was substituted. However, in the second-half NorthEast displayed more attacking football than in the first half. Moreover, super-sub Maximilliano Barreiro performed well with a goal.
In a big blow to the Highlanders, star Ghanian striker Asamoah Gyan was injured in the second half and was substituted, which, however, didn’t stop NorthEast from playing attacking football in the half. Super-sub Maximilliano Barreiro performed exceptionally well with a goal and Heerings hailed the striker.
“We have a lot of good players for when he (Gyan) is out. I think Maxi (Barreiro) did a great job today and the whole team is good so no problem.” the Dutch defender added.
NorthEast United have a passionate fan following wherever they play in India. The big defender also expressed his satisfaction in displaying a good performance for the travelling NorthEast fans.  “We are very proud that we are doing so well for them. We hope to continue like this after the (international) break.” Kai concluded.
