
# Clara Schumann didn't just raise seven children, she also invented the classical piano recital

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:27:13+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Ford**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-02/clara-schumann-invented-classical-recital-changed-music-forever/11645650)

Clara Wieck was a musical prodigy. Her mother Marianne was a singer; her overbearing father, Friedrich, a music teacher.
She went on to marry one of the greatest composers in history, Robert Schumann, bear eight children, and become a successful composer in her own right.
But perhaps her most enduring legacy is that she invented the classical piano recital.
Recitals, where people bought tickets to hear a pianist or violinist perform in a public auditorium, were a new concept in the 19th century, but then so was the very notion of classical music. Clara Schumann did more than anyone to popularise both.
But she wasn't an entertainer. She took the concerts and the repertoire seriously, and this was an attitude that can be traced back to the influence of her father Friedrich.
Following her mother's departure from the family home, Clara, aged four, had been taught piano, music theory and composition by her father alone.
As the author of a book on piano technique, Friedrich required his daughter to be a perfect exemplar, says Frances Falling, a singer, musicologist and research assistant at the Schumann-Haus in Leipzig.
"Apparently he was quite tyrannical at times," Falling tells RN's The Music Show.
"He had a very clear vision for what he wanted Clara to do, to be; he designed very carefully her days and took over all aspects of her life for a good 10 years, even writing her diary for her."
As Friedrich's protege, Clara didn't disappoint. She made her public debut in Leipzig just after her ninth birthday.
Soon, a law student, Robert Schumann, heard her play and was so impressed by the young girl, he decided to devote his life to music. He asked Friedrich for lessons and became the Wiecks' lodger.
Over the next decade, with Friedrich her manager, Clara toured Europe. Liszt came to hear her perform. Paganini offered to play with her.
She became known for her performances of Beethoven, who had recently died, but she also played her own music, as pianists were expected to, including a piano concerto which she premiered, aged 16, at Leipzig's Gewandhaus.
"Even during her time, she could have been considered a composer," Falling suggests.
"The critics writing about this concerto were all very positive, saying they hadn't expected such 'serious' music and compositional talent from a woman."
To Friedrich's horror, Clara fell in love with Robert, nine years her senior.
They had to take the old man to court to obtain permission, but in 1840 they were married, one day before Clara turned 21.
What happened next is sometimes portrayed as a typical story of male ego and female forbearance, a woman's career sacrificed on the altar of her husband's ambition.
But not only is this a rather modern slant on the relationship, it is also substantially untrue. Clara did not, as is often claimed, abandon composition when she married Robert.
The two of them composed side-by-side, sometimes publishing songs together, without specific attribution, and Clara's songs met with success.
Not everyone would have recognised that Robert might turn out to be one of Western music's greatest composers. Part of Clara's talent was to recognise Robert's more mercurial talent and nurture it.
Before their marriage, she was the more famous musician, but his composing began to attract attention, thanks in no small part to his wife's advocacy of his piano music.
Then, in the year of their marriage, Robert composed 138 songs, some of them among the greatest of the 19th century, including the cycles Liederkreis ("Song Cycle"), Frauenliebe und -leben ("A Woman's Love and Life") and Dichterliebe ("A Poet's Love").
Clara continued to compose, she bore eight children, and she kept playing, giving the first performances of many of Robert's works as well as those of the couple's young friend, Johannes Brahms.
There is some dispute among scholars whether Robert was schizophrenic or suffered from a bipolar disorder.
But he had suffered sometimes violent mood swings for many years, and following a suicide attempt in 1854, committed himself to an asylum.
For the next two years, Clara wasn't allowed to see her husband.
"The doctors felt that would be upsetting to him," Falling explains, "and it would not help in the healing process."
But there was to be no healing.
Clara was finally allowed to visit Robert in 1856, summoned because her husband was dying. It was the last time she saw him.
Clara was now nearly 37 years old, with seven children to support, three of them under 10. (The Schumanns' fourth child, Emil, had died in infancy.)
It was at this point she abandoned composition to concentrate on giving concerts.
In thinking about the second half of Clara's life, we must set it in a 19th century context.
At the start of that century, there was no such thing as classical music. The term didn't exist, and neither did the concept.
People played new music, and they did it, for the most part, at home. There were no public concert halls.
The idea that you can buy a ticket to sit in a large auditorium listening to a great pianist play Bach or Beethoven owes a lot to Clara Schumann.
There was the brilliant Liszt, of course, but as a performer he was, as Falling puts it, "a showman". Clara was serious.
Her concession to showbiz was to memorise the music she played. No-one had done this before — partly because they were playing new music, and so read it from the page.
Clara played new music too, but her fame increasingly rested on her advocacy of music of the past — classical music — and this she played from memory, as most classical pianists still do.
But Clara did more than popularise the memorising of music.
She helped establish what we now think of as the classical canon, and this, as Falling points out, may be traced all the way back to Friedrich.
"What her father taught Clara was completely to respect and honour — almost in a religious sense — the intention of the composer. To understand only that, fully and deeply: that was your calling as a performer."
Get more stories that go beyond the news cycle with our weekly newsletter. Sign up
