
# Seasonal Gifts For The Digital Nomad In Your Life

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Sparrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marksparrow/2019/11/04/seasonal-gifts-for-the-digital-nomad-in-your-life/)

There’s no putting this off any longer; Christmas will soon be upon us and with it comes the headache of trying to find suitable tech gifts for gadget crazy loved ones. This year I have some really helpful suggestions for the tech fiend who travels or is always on the move. I’ve chosen four gift suggestions that would be perfect for the digital nomad in your life.Power crazy
Let’s face it, the first thing most of us look for when packing a bag for a business trip is our power chargers. You can’t go far without a fully charged smartphone, laptop or tablet. However, the problem with many power adapters is they can be heavy and cumbersome, especially ones for laptops. It’s a hassle carrying lots of power bricks around for each different device. Then there’s the problem when travelling overseas with all those different types of power sockets and voltages.
The Satechi 75W Type-C Travel Charger can handle multiple voltages and uses a standard figure of eight cable so you can plug it in almost anywhere without needing an adapter. The Satechi travel charger can power up to four USB devices simultaneously and has a dedicated USB-C port for laptops; a USB-C PD port for devices drawing up to 18W of current at voltages ranging from 5V to 20V, such as a tablet. There are also two regular USB-3 ports outputting 5V at 2.4A. That lot should be enough to power your laptop, a tablet, a smartphone and one other USB powered device such as my next recommendation… a brand new 4G MiFi modem from TP-Link.
The Satechi travel charger is available in a couple of different SKUs and which one you get will depend on where you buy it but they all essentially do the same thing and will cut down on the clutter in your luggage.
Price: $69 / £69 / €69
More info: www.amazon.com/Satechi-Type-C-Travel-Charger-Adapter/
Compatibility: 2018 MacBook Air, 2018 iPad Pro, 2016/2017/2018 MacBook Pro, 2015/2016/2017 MacBook, iPhone XS Max/XS/XR, Nintendo Switch, Microsoft Surface Go, iPad Air/Mini, Samsung Galaxy S9 Plus/S9 and more

        Stay Connected
      
TP-Link has a great reputation for good value networking products that offer rock-solid reliability with stylish design. A few years back, my kids bought me a TP-Link G4 MiFi for taking away on business trips. It’s been one of the best gifts they ever bought me and means I just need to buy a local data SIM wherever I happen to be and I’m online with WiFi connections for up to 10 local devices and a choice of 2.4GHz or 5GHz bands.
The new TP_Link M7450 is the latest 4G LTE mobile Wi-FI – or Mi-Fi – as they’re know. This tiny little credit card sized device is enacased in a protect rubber-type material and sports a 1.4-inch color TFT screen that displays signal strength, battery life and even the amount of data used. It’s all set up using the free TP-Link Mi-Fi app and getting online couldn’t be simpler. For most networks it’s a case of popping in a micro SIM (an adapter is provided for nano SIMs) and the APN settings adjust themselves. In seconds you’re online and downloading at 4G/LTE speeds providing the local network signal is good enough. The modem is compatible all the way back to Edge and 2G networks.
The TP-Link M7450 can host up to 32 wireless clients over 2.4GHz or 5GHz. Both bands can’t be running at the same time so users need to choose which one suits them best. I often opt for 5GHz as the spectrum is usually less crowded, especially in hotels where longer wireless distances aren’t needed. The built-in rechargeable battery can provide up to 15 hours of use before a recharge is required. In practise, it’s about 10 hours of more intensive use. Finally, there’s a slot inside the M7450’s battery compartment that can hold a Micro SD card up to 32GB for storing data locally. It makes a handy backup device and the write speed is fast.
The TP-Link M7450 is the perfect device for frequent travellers who need to stay online and it’s easy to set up and use.
Price: £129 / €129
More info: www.tp-link.com

        Keep the noise down!
      
Conventional noise-cancelling headphones are great for long-haul flights. Both Sony and Bose make some great models but there’s a snag… they take up a lot of space if you’re limited to carry-on baggage. Having used noise-cancelling headphones for a while now, I find it hard to listen to music on a plane without a pair of NC headphones. Fortunately, Sony now makes true wireless Bluetooth earbuds that have active noise cancelling (ANC) built in.
The Sony WF-1000XM3 are great-sounding Bluetooth earbuds and they come in a smart flip-top charging case that contains enough juice to recharge the earbuds three times. The earbuds themselves can play for up to six hours on a single charge, and their fast-charge feature means they only need a 10-minute refresh to play on for another 90 minutes. That’s handy if you’re delayed.
The sound from these Sony earbuds is superb and there’s support for the high-quality AAC Bluetooth audio codec as well as Sony’s own LDAC protocol. The WF-1000XM3 provide good noise cancellation and there’s also a built-in microphone for making or taking phone calls as well as bossing Siri or Google Assistant around.
For those limited to carry-on baggage, the Sony WF-1000XM3 earbuds are a great space-saving choice.
Price: $229 / £220 / €249
More info: www.sony.com

        Bags of room for your gadgets
      
Billingham Bags is a British bag manufacturer that’s built a stellar reputation amongst photographers for the quality of the handmade bags that Billingham primarily sell to photographers. However, the beauty with Billingham’s Hadley Small Pro bag is you can easily remove the insert compartments designed for camera gear, and use it for your travel gadgets, iPad, notebook or whatever else you fancy. There are two expandable side pockets if extra space is required.
The Billingham Hadley Small Pro is waterproof and made from durable canvas or color-fast FibreNyte material. Both these hard-wearing textiles are then bonded to Stormblock material, which is two layers of fabric fused with butyl rubber. Due to its special composition, Stormblock doesn’t need to be 'reproofed' and remains water-resistant for its entire life.
On the top of the Hadley Small Pro there’s a strong, padded, leather-reinforced handle for extra comfort and a secure grip. An adjustable and detachable shuttle-woven polyester shoulder strap is also included, and this can transform the Hadley Small Pro into a compact messenger bag that’s ideal for carry-on luggage. A rear pocket, featuring a water-repellent zip, can be used to stow away important documents such as passports or tickets but still offers quick and easy access.
The Hadley Small Pro is available in a range of colors including khaki and tan, or black and tan. It’s a great little travel bag although not the cheapest bag on the market . However, it will probably still be going strong long after most bags have disintegrated and it comes with a five-year warranty.
Pricing: £200 / $245 / €235
More info: www.billingham.co.uk
