
# Special 11.11 discounts for Ulefone products on AliExpress - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:31:09+00:00**

Author: **Ying Hua**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/special-11-11-discounts-for-ulefone-products-on-aliexpress/)

Rate this post
The annual super shopping carnival on 11.11 in China is coming and Chinese mobile phone manufacturer Ulefone has prepared many discounts for their fans, including all Ulefone phones, up to 31% off. What’s more, they will offer some extra promotions and discount coupons for the shopping festival. Let’s have a look at some Ulefone products then !
For starters there are two giveaway events: the buyer who paid the highest amount on Ulefone AliExpress store during the 11.11 shopping festival can get a free Ulefone Armor X3; and if you buy products in the first two hours in Nov. 11th and Nov. 12th, then you may have a chance to win a free Ulefone Note 7, limited to 5 units. 
Then, there will be some $10 coupons for you in Nov. 11th, you can use the coupons without amount limits, hurry up to get the coupons on the hour.  Finally, the annual flagship rugged phone of Ulefone – Armor 7 will launch on AliExpress, with the price tag of $369.99. If you are interested, it will be a perfect chance to grab one.
If you have one phone you need to buy, you can add it to your cart in advance. For more details about the 11.11 shopping carnival and all the featured Ulefone products, you can visit the official Ulefone AliExpress store.
