
# IND v BAN | Bangladesh put us under pressure right from start, asserts Rohit Sharma

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:35:12+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/ind-v-ban-bangladesh-put-us-under-pressure-right-from-start-asserts-rohit-sharma?utm_medium=rss)


        Rohit Sharma credited Bangladesh for putting them under pressure right from the start of the innings in the first T20I in Delhi. Courtesy of some disciplined bowling and Mushfiqur Rahim’s unbeaten 60, the visitors won the match by seven wickets to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series.
      
Skipper Mahmudullah’s decision to bowl first after winning the toss proved a masterstroke as the Indian top-order struggled to get going. While Rohit was dismissed early, his partner Shikhar Dhawan made 41 and KL Rahul made 15, but with strike rates under 100. It took a late flourish from all-rounders Krunal Pandya and Washington Sundar to take India’s total close to the 150-run mark — a total Rohit believed was defendable. 
“Not to take credit away from Bangladesh. They put us under pressure right from the start when we were batting. It was a defendable score, and we made mistakes on the field. We weren't up to the mark on the field, but batting-wise I think we put up a competitive score,” Rohit said, reported Cricbuzz. 
However several lapses on the field and with regard to DRS decisions resulted in a first-ever defeat for the Men in Blue against their neighbours. 
“The guys are a bit inexperienced, and they can learn from that, perhaps not make them the next time. The reviews were a mistake from our side, not to talk about it at least, and the first ball he played on the back foot, we thought it was going down leg, and the next one on the front foot, but we forgot how short he is!,” Rohit said.
His counterpart, Mahmudullah, also credited his bowlers for a job smartly done, while showering praise on the match-winner Mushfiqur’s contribution as well. 
“I think it was all based on how we started. The bowlers did a great job, everyone chipped in. I think we fielded really well and that gave us momentum going into our batting. I think captaincy is made easy because of the boys who have performed really well,” Mahmudullah said.
"Mushy was really good and Soumya had a good partnership with him. I think Naim deserves a mention as well. He played really well on debut."
