
# Cheryl 'feared' son Bear would be 'swapped' at hospital after birth

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:38:05+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/cheryl-feared-son-bear-would-20837750)

Cheryl has told that she "feared" her and ex beau Liam Payne's son Bear was going to be swapped with another baby in hospital after he was born.
The former X Factor judge, 36, who welcomed her first child in March 2017, opened up on being "irrational" postpartum during an interview on Ru Paul and Michelle Visage’s podcast What’s The Tea.
The Geordie shared: “When I had him, first of all I wouldn’t let the doctors take him out of the room.
“I read this story about two girls being swapped at birth and it was playing on my mind.”
The Three Words hitmaker reflected: "I was so irrational…I didn’t want anyone to take him.”
It comes after her One Direction ex Liam, 26, described Cheryl as the "most important person in his life" and hinted that he'd consider getting back together with her.
The pair split last year ahead of their son Bear's first birthday.
Liam has since made some eye-opening revelations about his feelings towards Cheryl during new documentary, Ant Middleton and Liam Payne: Straight Talking, that saw them travel to Namibia.
Opening up on the trip, Liam said of his two-year-old son: "Becoming a dad at such a young age, it's such a difficult thing.
"And I think I built fatherhood up so much in my head that it kind of messed me up to start with. I started in a bad place with it.
"I think it spooked me out early on, and I was just worried I would not be enough to look after the both of them. They're so important to me — Cheryl as well.
"She's one of the most, if not the most, important people in my life. I'm lucky I have someone who understands what I'm going through."
Liam also joked that he and Cheryl could still get back together "if she plays her cards right" but said he'd be in trouble for admitting that.
Liam is currently dating 19-year-old model Maya Henry.
He has done a series of interviews praising his new love and said he felt 'very relaxed' and 'happy' with her.
He told MTV: "I'm really happy right now and things are good. Now that I've found someone who's my best friend as well as my partner. It's massively changed things for me.
"She's just so relaxed about everything. Someone who's completely got your back with everything is just the wildest thing.
Recently, the Hugo Boss model credited the brunette bombshell for bringing happiness back into his life.
The dad-of-one shared a loved-up picture of himself and Maya cuddling on the sofa. He captioned the post: "Sometimes I don’t recognise this happy guy... sure glad you brought him back though."
