
# Inside the Making of Kylie Jenner's Custom Marilyn Monroe and Madonna Halloween Costumes

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29657562/kylie-jenner-madonna-marilyn-monroe-costume-design-details/?utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter)

The typical Kardashian-Jenner Halloween costume doesn't come from a costume store; it comes from a designer. In the case of Kylie Jenner this year, who wore six costumes total, Jenner's stylist Jill Jacobs worked with Bryan Hearns to create Jenner's Madonna look and Alejandro Collection to have Jenner's Marilyn Monroe outfit constructed.
ELLE.com talked to designers Bryan Hearns and Alejandro Peraza of Alejandro Collection about what went into making two of Hollywood's biggest Halloween costumes this year.
Jenner dressed up as Madonna at the 2003 MTV VMAs with her friend Anastasia Karanikolaou, who was Britney Spears. Why did they choose that moment and to recreate the two's big kiss? "The girls are OBSESSED with pop culture so they really wanted to pick an iconic moment that everyone is familiar with," Hearns said.
Detail was critical. "I wanted to make sure the designs were as close to the original as possible," Hearns said. "We spent a lot of time researching videos and all pictures from the performance to make sure we got it 120 percent right. It's still my top fave performance ever so I already had a good idea of how we were going to recreate the look."
"Every piece is so different so took a while to create all of the looks," Hearns added. "I wanted to makes sure it looked as close as possible to the original so sourcing the fabrics was a fun challenge. Britney’s look was very bridal vibe so that was my first time doing that type of look, which was a great first experience."
Initially, Jenner was going to be Christina Aguilera. "Kylie has been Christina Aguilera before so naturally she wanted to do another iconic Xtina look," Hearns said. "When Stassie and Kendall [Jenner] joined forces, they were all happy to play dress up and go with the flow as far as who would play who." Kendall Jenner ultimately wasn't photographed in the Christina look.
"I loved how all the girls changed up who they were originally supposed to be to shock all of us," Hearns added of the surprise. "Of course, they all still looked amazing."
For V magazine's Halloween cover, Jenner appeared as a spot-on Marilyn Monroe from Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. Jenner specifically wanted to pay homage to one of Monroe's most iconic film moments ever: When Monroe performed "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend."
The dress didn't come together last minute: "Kylie’s Marilyn look has been weeks in the making; I received a call from her stylist Jill [Jacobs] and sent over sketches," Alejandro Peraza said. "Kylie always loves a pop culture moment, and after all, no one knows better than Kylie when it comes to diamonds being a girl’s best friend."
Peraza's goal was to create a replica of the original dress. "The costume was recreated meticulously, and [I was] paying very close attention to the original design," Peraza said. "[I] loved making the bow, perfecting the gloves, then tying it all [together] with the perfect belt. The whole process was a dream come true for me and my atelier."
It took just two weeks for the garment to be constructed, Peraza said. "The dress has built-in boning, perfectly confected to give Kylie the Marylin look," he explained. "The look came together in two weeks from start to finish. We had to custom dye fabric to make the gloves so it matched the silk fabric perfectly, as well as unusually long length like the ones from the 'Diamonds Are a Girl’s Best Friend' song."
