
# Cutting Hours Is A Bold Move To Make London’s Financial District More Diverse

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Wood**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alexwood/2019/11/07/cutting-hours-is-a-bold-move-to-make-londons-financial-district-more-diverse/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2806712400&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

London’s financial district is one of the world’s oldest, and when it comes to working culture, it's starting to show its age.  
Two industry bodies want to shake things up by calling for a cut in trading hours for stocks. The Investment Association the Association for Financial Markets are arguing that shaving off 90 mins of trading time at the London Stock Exchange will make the industry more inclusive, boost mental health and improve gender balance in the traditionally male-dominated sector.
London’s traders aren’t work shy, racking up some of the longest working hours in the world.
Equities markets are open between 8:00am - 4:30pm, meaning most traders start as early as 06:30am and rarely finish before 5:30pm. That makes up to 60 hours per week, which understandably makes it impossible for many people with family commitments to have a long career.
Many traders believe they have a rough ride compared to Hong Kong, where traders enjoy long lunches lasting up to 60 minutes while the market shuts, whereas Londoners are chained to their desks all day with no gap in trading, eating their sandwiches al desko. 
Just like on Wall Street, a career in London’s financial district, known locally as ‘The City’, is tough, but that sacrifice has been rewarded by lucrative pay. 
But times are a changing. Lavish bonuses are a thing of the past thanks to the EU’s catchily-named ‘Capital Requirements Directive IV’, which in 2015 put caps on the bumper payouts enjoyed by workers.
In the past decade, the City’s culture has transformed, ‘laddish’ beer-fueled late nights are out and (albeit slowly), more women are climbing the ranks.
News of the proposed cut in trading hours raised eyebrows across London. The Stock Exchange responded positively, telling Forbes in a statement it would consider a consultation on the idea.
But not everyone is convinced the move will make a big difference. “Culturally, it’s nice to see the London Stock Exchange move to keep up with its counterparts in Asia” one broker told Forbes, who asked to remain anonymous. “But in reality the long working hours won’t change for the foreseeable future”. 
While the move could be positive the work-life balance of equities traders, it would have little impact on desks trading other products like bonds, which change hands day and night all week until New York closes on Fridays.
Even if the impact is minimal, this move to shorter hours pushes the financial sector in the right direction.
For years the City has aspired to become more diverse and inclusive. More family-friendly hours could usher in a new generation of leaders in finance, with innovative new ideas and ways of working.
If the change happens, its hoped other exchanges across Europe will follow suit, making the shorter hours uniform across the continent.
Not many of us would turn our noses up at the chance to work fewer hours. Cutting back is in vogue, with Microsoft Japan recently finding a 4 day working week trial boosted productivity by 40%. But however small this change at the Stock Exchange may seem, a more diverse City of London is something we can all get behind.
