
# Lando Norris enjoyed racing for 5th and overtaking at the US Grand Prix

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49431/lando-norris-enjoyed-racing-for-5th-and-overtaking-at-the-us-grand-prix.html)


        Lando Norris had a great start to the US Grand Prix and got up as high as fifth place at one point. The McLaren driver had a good race with Daniel Ricciardo and his own teammate Carlos Sainz. 
      
“A good race for the team and me!" Norris said in his race debrief. "I had a really good launch off the line and was up to P5 after the first few corners. We’re doing a good job in this respect and it’s a good strength of ours.

        "The rest of the race was tough, especially the first stint on the softs. I struggled a lot compared to Daniel [Ricciardo] in the later laps with the tyres, which we kind of expected.
      

        “We then did the Hard tyre stint and was close to getting Daniel after the stop. I tried to look after the tyres. He wasn’t pushing too much, so I was trying to push, and see if he made any mistake where I could get past him. But he didn't and was just controlling the pace.
      

        "We decided to box for Mediums and go for the two-stop – which turned out to be really good. A fun race, at least in the third stint, with some overtaking." 
      
Norris has had a really strong debut season in Formula 1 but has had more than his share of bad luck. He will hope that next season his car will be more reliable and that he can really battle with his teammate for a position in the drivers standings. 
