
# MP expresses disappointment over low budget for Rakhine road and bridge projects

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Than Hlaing**

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/mp-expresses-disappointment-over-low-budget-for-rakhine-road-and-bridge-projects)

 
Lower House MP Pe Than has expressed his disappointment over low budget for road and bridge projects meant for regional development in Rakhine State.
With very low budget, he gave one example saying that the construction of a nine-mile circular road around Ngamanyway island in Myaybon Township will take about nine years to reach a concrete one as the amount of budget to be allotted is limited for one mile every year.
"The road connects Myaybon and Lonlonepaik. But the annual budget is just for one mile. When another road section is being constructed, the other finished sections will run into ruin. I am very disappointed. This year, we get a budget for a half mile from the Union and another budget for a half mile from the state. Last year, we got the budget for only four furlongs. With poor transport, Rakhine State is slow to develop. This important inter-village road has not reached a gravel one even though the project has take over five or six years.
The road was built into an earthen one about eight years ago with Japanese assistance. State budget, especially Union budget, are necessary for the road to be a concrete one. This road will benefit 13 villages.
"The construction of Kyelsin Bridge took about five years. Every road or bridge project goes slowly because of low budget. The Union (government) should render full assistance," MP Pe Than said.    
 
 
