
# General Election 2019: Shocking maps show potential power of non-voters as Kilmarnock Standard launch campaign

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Colin Paterson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/colin-paterson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/general-election-2019-shocking-maps-20817908)

The Standard today launches our Your Vote Counts campaign.
And it has been backed this week by two of the thousands of candidates hoping to be elected as a Westminster MP.
The campaign aims to encourage people to take the time to register to vote, especially those who are within the 18 to 34 age bracket.
And as the election draws nearer the Standard implores every eligible voter, young and old, to use their vote in what looks set to be the most important poll in decades.
Research by David Ottewell and the data journalism department at Reach, the Standard’s parent company, shows just how much of an impact non-voters could have.
The graphs above give a stark illustration of what could happen if non-voters decided to go to their local polling station.
In our Kilmarnock and Loudoun constituency there were more non-voters than those who voted for the winner, the SNP’s Alan Brown.
Non-voter numbers were also bigger than Mr Brown’s majority of 6269.
 
The figures from the 2017 General Election show Kilmarnock and Loudoun had 73,327 electors with a turnout of 63.4 per cent.
46,509 people voted and there were 81 invalid votes, which means 26,737 people did not vote.
The number of people who voted for Mr Brown was 19,690.
As of Monday East Ayrshire Council said 70,820 people were on the electoral roll.
Mr Brown, who is hoping to be re-elected as constituency MP, gave our campaign his backing yesterday.
He said: “I am happy to support this campaign run by the Kilmarnock Standard. We should be doing more to get young people out to vote.
“Previously,the younger generation were disillusioned with politics and current affairs but I firmly believe that is starting to change.
“I can only go on what dealings I have had with young people and I can see positive signs of engagement.
“Young people were pivotal during the 2014 independence referendum and I am proud that the SNP Scottish Government allow 16 and 17-year-olds the right to vote in such elections.
“I would love to see that level of enthusiasm filter through to the 18-34 age group. Evidence shows this age group is less likely to vote.
“I cannot emphasise this enough: this is your future and your decision.
“Many of the current majorities across Scotland are less than 100 and my colleague Stephen Gethins has a majority of just two.
“This shows your vote does matter and can have a massive impact on how the future government is shaped.
“If you have the right to vote don’t waste it. Use it and go make a difference. My ultimate advice is that if you don’t vote then that suits those in power, who can carry on unchallenged.”
 
Kevin McGregor, who is standing for Labour in Kilmarnock and Loudoun, said: “As a political activist and now candidate, I am always keen to highlight the importance of being registered to vote.
“It is a hard-won right and I would encourage everyone to check that they are registered or, if they are not but are eligible, to register to do so.
“ Nowadays you can apply for a postal vote or if circumstances get in your way you can apply for a postal vote.
“Personally I am one of those who love the ritual of going to the polling station.
“I fully support the Standard’s campaign to encourage people, especially in the 18-34 age range, to get registered and to exercise your democratic right.
“You matter, your vote matters and our democracy matters. Please register.”
Standard Editor Colin Paterson said: “We’re proud to launch the Your Vote Counts campaign this month and we will do everything we can to encourage those eligible to vote to register before Tuesday, November 26, the deadline for voting in next month’s General Election.
“Every vote matters but we want to particularly encourage those who are aged between 18 and 34 to register and then use their vote.
“Decisions taken today will affect people in this age bracket for longer so it’s important to have your say, perhaps now more than ever.
“And if you don’t think your vote matters? Just look at the maps at the top of these pages to see the impact of non-voters.
“It’s time to get off the bench and into the game.”
