
# Angelina Jolie talks life after Brad Pitt divorce: 'I have both the visible and invisible scars'

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:48:39+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/angelina-jolie-talks-life-after-brad-pitt-divorce-i-have-both-the-visible-and-invisible-scars-20191106)

Cape Town – Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt had one of the most-talked-about divorces in Hollywood history.
It was one of the biggest entertainment news stories of the year in 2016. Headlines all over the world speculated about what caused the breakup, but for their part, Brad and Angie kept relatively mum.
Now in the last issue of Harper's BAZAAR for the year, Angelina – who appears naked on the cover – has spoken about her six children, healing her visible and invisible scars and how she is doing now.
The 44-year-old explained how it drastically changed her life and spoke candidly in the interview about how the last four years have been physically, emotionally, and mentally tumultuous for her and her large brood.
Angelina – who underwent a preventative double mastectomy in 2013 followed by breast reconstruction - said: "My body has been through a lot over the past decade, particularly the past four years, and I have both the visible and invisible scars to show for it." In 2015, the actress also had her ovaries and fallopian tubes removed.
She elaborated: "The invisible ones are harder to wrestle with. Life takes many turns. Sometimes you get hurt, you see those you love in pain, and you can't be as free and open as your spirit desires. It's not new or old, but I do feel the blood returning to my body,"
About her children, she said: "They have been through a lot. I learn from their strength. As parents, we encourage our kids to embrace all that they are, and all that they know in their hearts to be right, and they look back at us and want the same for us,".
In a quote that some have interpreted as a dig at Brad about their custody arrangement, the Oscar-winner said: "I would love to live abroad and will do so as soon as my children are 18. Right now, I'm having to base where their father chooses to live."
The actress, who travelled the world recently while promoting her role Maleficent 2 - is currently filming Marvel's The Eternals, where she had to evacuate the set earlier this week due to a bomb scare. 
For his part, when speaking about his divorce in an interview with Harper's BAZAAR, Brad said he turned to alcohol, "to avoid tough feelings, painful feelings".

        SEE ANGIE'S COVER HERE:
      

        Compiled by Alex Isaacs. (Sources: Harper's BAZAAR, Channel24, Bang Showbiz.)
      

        Photo: Sølve Sundsbø for Harper's BAZAAR. 
      
