
# The Kieran Tierney and Unai Emery Arsenal touchline 'exchange' that highlights mounting frustrations

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:54:59+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Young, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/graeme-young/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/kieran-tierney-unai-emery-arsenal-20801437)

You have to doff your cap to Arsenal 's social media team.
The club, knowing the backlash coming their way, took to Twitter to share a happy birthday pick-me-up for Unai Emery on Sunday after a week from hell for the Spaniard.
The replies were brutal and unsurprising.
And partying probably is the last thing on the 48-year-old's mind after watching his side capitulate both on and off the pitch.
Arsenal showed their fragility by stumbling to home draws against Crystal Palace and Wolves plus they somehow contrived to lose to Liverpool on penalties after a thrilling 5-5 Carabao Cup draw.
They led by two goals on two occasions at Anfield but still came apart at the seams as Jurgen Klopp's 'mentality monsters' demonstrated their resilience while also exposing the Gunners' fragilities.
 
But those results are the tip of the iceberg compared to the fallout over captain Granit Xhaka's reaction to being substituted against Wolves.
The Swiss enforcer had a pop back at the fans who jeered him and he hasn't been spotted since. The 28-year-old launched an impassioned defence of his character on Thursday as he opened up on the sickening personal abuse that has come his way.
The former Borussia Monchengladbach star wasn't part of Saturday's squad and his long-term future remains up in the air.
Pundits and supporters alike queried Emery's handling of the situation but his problems aren't limited to results and his skipper's quandry.
Emery, who will be fully aware of the storm brewing over his own future, is also having to deal with a report Jose Mourinho is keen to replace him.
The Sunday Times state the Special One views the Gunners job as his perfect route back into the Premier League.
And the seven-day storm appears to be having an effect as Emery also appeared to be growing increasingly frustrated with his players and was beside himself on the touchline during the draw with Wolves.
Former Celtic star Kieran Tierney , a £25million summer arrival, reportedly got it in the neck over his distribution. The 22-year-old was replaced by Sead Kolasinac for the final three minutes while £72m man Nicolas Pepe languished on the bench, with Arsenal desperate for a goal.
The Scotland star was below his best during the match but it's understood he gave Emery as good as he got when the exasperated former Paris Saint-Germain manager bellowed instructions in his direction.
Camden New Journa l wrote: "Emery animated on the sidelines. Acting out how he wants Tierney to kick the ball. Looked like Tierney gestured for him to calm down."
Emery, who earned praise for his side's swashbuckling football during his first season in charge, knows the heat is on. The squad is said to being bored and confused by the Spaniard’s team talks and training ideas.
There are flickers of hope, however. Mesut Ozil's return after being shelved has added an attacking X-Factor but a Leicester win against Crystal Palace on Sunday would leave them six points adrift of an automatic Champions League spot.
And who's next in the league? A trip to face the Irishman's high-flying Foxes at the King Power Stadium.
Rodgers, riding a crest of a wave with the Foxes, will once again get the chance to demonstrate his coaching credentials to a fanbase who mocked his inclusion as a candidate to replace Arsene Wenger.
