
# CEOs of rating firms kept out of Sebi panel

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/ceos-of-rating-firms-kept-out-of-sebi-panel/articleshow/71913532.cms)

MUMBAI: Sebi on Monday further tightened the norms for credit rating agencies (CRAs). The markets regulator has barred the MD and the CEO of a rating firm from being a member of its rating committee. Sebi also said that the rating committee of a CRA should be headed by its chief rating officer (CRO). This person will report directly to the rating sub-committee of the company’s board of directors, which in turn should be headed by an independent director.
The latest move by Sebi to tighten the norms for CRAs comes in the backdrop of some of the recent issues related to ratings of corporates. In some cases, the top management of a few CRAs influenced ratings, and subsequently some of these companies defaulted, leading to severe stress in the entire financial system of the country.
In its circular, Sebi also said that at least a third of the board of directors of a CRA should be independent people. “In case the board of the CRA is chaired by an executive director, half of the board shall comprise of independent directors,” the circular said.
The regulator added that the top officials of a CRA should meet the audit committee of the company it is rating at least once a year to discuss matters pertaining to related-party transactions, internal financial controls, etc, that is, to discuss issues which have a bearing on the rating of an entity.
Sebi also said that during the rating process, “CRAs shall record minutes of the meeting with issuer management and incorporate it in the rating committee note”.
In one of the most high-profile cases relating to a CRA, the board of ICRA in late August had asked Naresh Takkar, then its MD and group CEO, to resign. The move is believed to be the result of an investigation by ICRA’s board into a complaint by a whistleblower to markets regulator Sebi, which alleged irregularities in assigning a rating to IL&FS by completely ignoring the government-run lender’s fragile financial health.
Investigations by an agency appointed by a new board of IL&FS also found that to assure top ratings, former top officials of the lender had paid in cash and kind to several stakeholders.
