
# Tributes paid to solicitor Pat Fahy who `never lost passion for justice and support for the underdog and the oppressed'

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Guest1**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/04/news/tributes-paid-to-solicitor-pat-fahy-who-never-lost-passion-for-justice-and-support-for-the-underdog-and-the-oppressed--1755363/)

MEMBERS of Sinn Féin and to Tyrone GAA club which Pat Fahy founded formed a guard of honour at his funeral yesterday.
The human rights solicitor and republican activist died in the palliative care ward at Omagh Hospital on Thursday.
The requiem mass at St Patrick's Church, Drumquin, was attended by leading members of Sinn Féin including leader Michelle O'Neill, MLA John O'Dowd and MPs Francie Molloy and Michelle Gildernew.
Drumquin GAC described Mr Fahy as "one of the cornerstones on which our club has been built " and a "grievous loss".
Fr Joe McVeigh recalled "a good and true friends", whom he had known almost 50 years.
The priest, who travelled from Enniskillen to deliver the homily, is a cousin of Michael Leonard whose family the solicitor represented at his 1973 inquest after he was shot dead by an RUC patrol at the border.
"All though the years, Pat was a person in whom I could confide, a man with whom I could share my concerns," Fr McVeigh said.
"He was a man with whom I could argue and yet remain on good terms... I was greatly inspired by his integrity and commitment as a human being and also by his professionalism as a lawyer. I valued his insights and political analysis. He was a clear thinker and a deep thinker."
He described how his "thriving legal practice in Omagh and in Enniskillen" led to "the famous graffiti on the wall in the middle of Strabane during the 1980s - `SAY NOTHING TO YOU SEE FAHY'."
"Pat was well-known for his thoroughness and expertise in legal matters. He was `the right man' to have in court arguing your case," the priest said.
"Even people who disagreed with him politically engaged Pat Fahy to represent them. They knew he was the best. He feared no barristers or lawyers for the prosecution. He was there to defend his clients - no matter what creed or class - to the very best of his ability."
The solictor who had been "active since the early days of the civil rights movement in the late 1960s... never ever lost that passion for justice and his support for the underdog and the oppressed".
Fr McVeigh said while Mr Fahy was "an unashamed republican", he was "totally committed to a political way forward... to an inclusive society in the `New Ireland' where the unionist culture would be accommodated and respected."
"He liked the simple life... gardening and travelling" and devoted to "other chief passion Gaelic football - either the Wolfe Tones in his native Drumquin or Tyrone county team". He had been lead singer in short-lived 1960s showband `The Prophets'.
"Pat will be sorely missed by all of us - by his own family and especially by Robyn, his constant companion for the last 32 years, who remained by his bedside every day and night during his illness," Fr McVeigh said.
