
# Pacific migrant workers the focus of confronting artwork by New Zealand-based Tongan artist John Vea

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:14:55+00:00**

Author: **Teresa Tan**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-05/pacific-migrant-workers-artwork-by-tongan-artist-john-vea/11664882)

You might consider ethics when choosing where to buy your clothes from, asking whether the workers who stitched your shirt are paid a living wage, or work in humane conditions.
You might take into account your carbon footprint when selecting groceries from supermarket shelves, and forgo the out-of-season asparagus that has been flown in from Mexico.
But what about the hands that picked your Australian navel orange?
On a sunny Saturday morning last month during Liveworks Festival of Experimental Art in Sydney, a stall featuring three large corflute boards with photographs of fruit pickers and produce popped up outside Carriageworks arts centre, directly opposite the bustling weekly farmers markets.
At a quick glance, the stall could have been mistaken for a tourism kiosk, with marketing slogans proclaiming "New Zealand Land of Plenty" and "This could be you" in English, Samoan and Tongan, as well as cardboard boxes filled with fresh oranges.
However, those who looked closer would have noticed the faces of all the Pacific workers had been cut out, like gimmicky face-in-the-hole photo booths found at tourist traps or theme parks.
"I like setting up social interventions," Auckland-based Tongan artist John Vea told ABC.
The performance artwork, titled If I pick your fruit, will you put mine back? — a joint commission by Liveworks and 4A Centre for Contemporary Asian Art — aims to create a discourse around the politics, ethics, visibility and invisibility of imported Pacific labourers in Australia and New Zealand.
"So how do I highlight that and make them visible?"
As the morning went by, some passers-by stopped in their tracks to make sense of the stall, while others simply stepped in for the photo op and carried on with their day — no questions asked.
Vea describes the artwork as "a bait".
"It's for the audience to make a judgment on whether it is ethical to take a photo, it's up to them — and that's what I'm interested in," Vea said.
"I don't mind the backlash, I just want to create some dialogue."
Moana Nui a Kiwa (Maori for Pacific Ocean) workers have been funnelled through the Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) Scheme in New Zealand since 2007, and the Seasonal Worker Programme (SWP) in Australia since 2012.
Researchers at the Australian National University estimate seasonal workers account for 16 per cent of the horticultural workforce in New Zealand, and 8 per cent in Australia.
In Australia, Pacific migrant workers are flown in to temporarily plug labour shortages in industries like cotton, cane, viticulture and horticulture during harvest for up to nine months — padding the ranks of locals, refugees, backpackers and other migrants.
The minimum hourly wage in New Zealand is $17.70; in Australia it is $19.49. But that's before living costs, police checks, insurances and a multitude of factors that come into play.
While some workers have positive experiences, others find themselves in industries rife with reports of exploitation, human trafficking and wage theft.
Both schemes are positioned as development aid for the Pacific region, a "win-win-win" according to Lowy Institute's Jonathan Pryke.
But Vea questions whether Pacific countries are the real beneficiaries.
This desire to shed light on an invisible workforce and population is informed by Vea's relatives who have participated in the RSE scheme.
In emulating information booths found in Pacific nations to recruit migrant workers for the RSE scheme, Vea's simple but direct artwork offers a confronting depiction of how Australia and New Zealand are perceived by Pacific Islanders.
"[I'm] just sharing a perspective on what it looks like from the other side," says Vea.
From ages two to four, Vea would tag along with his father at the Fletcher Fisheries factory in Auckland, and sometimes his mother too, at the hospital where she worked as a registered nurse.
"We couldn't afford preschool, kindergarten, or babysitters," he says.
Vea currently works at a potato chip factory — while also completing his PhD — as a way to earn a living and also collect the experiences and struggles of migrants by way of talanoa — a research methodology in the Pacific academic world.
Tongan academic Timote M. Vaioleti describes talanoa as "a personal encounter where people story their issues, their realities and aspirations".
"Talanoa is a word for conversation throughout Fiji, Samoa and Tonga," Vea says.
"The people I talanoa with are from the community I come from, which is a lower socio-economic community, Pacific migrants and other migrants that have relocated to New Zealand," he says.
For Vea, the exchanging of words and movements through the act of talanoa is what informs his art practice.
Vea opened his first Australian solo exhibition in October, also titled If I pick your fruit, will you put mine back? at Sydney gallery 4A.
The exhibition features four video works, a "seasonal worker survival kit" and a participatory installation that recreates the lunch room at the Bluebird potato chip factory Vea used to work at too.
The title of the exhibition and performance was settled on long before Deputy Prime Minister Michael McCormack's "pick our fruit" comments at the Pacific Islands Forum in August this year.
"It was serendipitous," Vea says with a chuckle.
On the first floor of 4A, a pile of cinder blocks forms the beginnings of a wall; projected onto it is Vea's 2013 video artwork 29.09.2009 Tribute to Samoa, American Samoa and Tonga. In the work, a focused but visibly anxious Vea attempts to construct a wall on a beach while the tide washes in and swirls around him.
Vea says that for those who live in Pacific nations, the evidence of rising sea levels is an urgent lived reality.
"You just got to go out the front door to see [water] coming on to the roads," he said.
He reflects that perhaps Mr McCormack's remarks stem from a Western system of thinking focused on the individual.
"If one is dealing with a situation, then we are all dealing with the situation."
At Carriageworks, Vea's artwork elicited some empathetic responses.
4A co-curators Mikala Tai and Micheal Do told ABC one woman said the booth's photo stands should be in every Woolworths in Australia.
One of the farmers markets stall-holders went over to Vea to talanoa, thankful that the stories of migrant workers were being talked about.
Tai hopes Vea's work — outside and inside the gallery — will start important conversations she feels currently aren't happening.
"We'll argue about the plastic that covers a cucumber as opposed to how the cucumber got here," she says.
She'd like shoppers in the fruit and veg section to ask themselves: why is something so cheap?

        
          John Vea: If I pick your fruit, will you put mine back?
        
         runs until December 15 at 4A Centre for Contemporary Asian Art in Sydney.
      
