
# GE President in Saudi Arabia: We Seek to Diversify Economic, Energy Resources in Line With Vision 2030

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:15:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Asharq AL-awsat](https://aawsat.com/english/home/article/1971471/ge-president-saudi-arabia-we-seek-diversify-economic-energy-resources-line)

Hisham Al-Bahkali, President and CEO of GE in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, said that the global company was seeking to reach higher levels of productivity and operational efficiency in the Kingdom’s energy sector by working with its partners in the country.He noted that the company’s focus at the moment was to develop its investments in Saudi Arabia. In an interview with Asharq Al-Awsat on the sidelines of the Future Investment Initiative (FII) forum held in Riyadh, Bahkali stressed that GE would continue to launch new initiatives in Saudi Arabia that would strengthen its presence and its partnerships in the country. “GE has had a strong presence in Saudi Arabia for more than 80 years. This relationship dates back to the 1930s when the company supported the first oil exploration projects by supplying the necessary turbine machinery,” he said. “At present, our strategy comes in line with Vision 2030, which gives high priority to diversifying energy resources and the economy, providing productive employment opportunities for Saudi citizens and enriching their knowledge and experience, while simultaneously establishing a culture of local innovation. In the energy sector, our strategy is to support partners in achieving higher levels of productivity and operational efficiency,” Bahkali underlined. According to the GE president in Saudi Arabia, enhancing efficiency and productivity in the energy sector is linked to the use of modern technologies and the recruitment of staff with appropriate skills and competencies.“We are committed to providing all available support in these two fields,” he said. Bahkali told Asharq Al-Awsat that GE has installed more than 500 gas turbines in the Kingdom and its technology generated more than half of its electricity. On the company’s endeavor to support the sector of renewable energy in the Kingdom, he said: “GE is one of the world’s leading technologies in support of renewable energy. It has a strong presence in more than 55 countries and contributes to the production of 400 GW of energy using these resources.” He continued: “We are fully committed to supporting the Kingdom’s goal of generating around 60 GW on renewable sources by 2030, and we have installed two 2.75-120 wind turbines as pilot projects in 2016 and 2017.” Asked about GE’s contribution to the Saudi health sector, the CEO said that his company played a key role in supporting digital transformation in the healthcare sector, which would enhance efficiency, quality and accessibility for patients.The Kingdom’s healthcare services are witnessing significant positive developments based on Vision 2030 and the National Transformation Plan, Bahkali remarked. “We are proud that Saudi hospitals and clinics use more than 20,000 medical technologies developed by GE. We will continue to work with our clients to develop new and innovative solutions to the challenges facing the healthcare industry,” he concluded.
