
# Drama Galore In Durban As Chiefs End Bucs' TKO Dream

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/telkom-knockout-quarter-final-report-kaizer-chiefs-v-orlando-pirates-02-november-2019/666601)


        Telkom Knockout
      
Result: Kaizer Chiefs 2-2 Orlando Pirates (Chiefs won 4-2 on penalties)
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Moses Mabhida Stadium
Kaizer Chiefs got the better of their Soweto rivals Orlando Pirates on penalties to advance to the Telkom Knockout semi-finals on Saturday.

        
          Click through the gallery to see images from Chiefs' TKO victory.
        
      
Amakhosi made only one change from their win over Mamelodi Sundowns, with George Maluleka taking the place of the injured Reeve Frosler. Meanwhile, Bucs made three variations from the win over Highlands Park, with Thembinkosi Lorch, Fortune Makaringe and Kabelo Dlamini returning to the fray.
Ernst Middendorp's charges found the back of the net in 21st minute through Samir Nurkovic's header on the far side from Khama Billiat's cross, but the celebrations were cut short as the striker was flagged offside.
Pirates were lucky not to be a man down just after half-hour mark after Lorch appeared to have stamped on Billiat after initially fouling him, but he was only awarded a yellow card as tempers flared up between both sides.
The Glamour Boys lost their concentration moments later as Lorch turned provider to unselfishly teed up Makaringe, who slotted into the bottom corner to hand Pirates the lead.
There was another contentious incident in first half stoppage time after Akepeyi's attempted chip over Dlamini went wrong and he appeared to impede the Pirates striker from going clear on goal but the referee saw nothing wrong. 
There was further drama five minutes inside the second stanza after Mthokozisi Dube received a second yellow card for a foul on Billiat and received his marching orders, with Pirates having to soldier on with ten men.
Amakhosi eventually equalised in the 62nd minute thanks to a low drive from Leonardo Castro that found the bottom corner after Billiat's initial effort ricocheted off the bottom post.
Chiefs had the momentum in the closing phase and Billiat almost snatched the winner in the last three minutes from a direct free-kick, but Sandilands back-tracked after coming off his line to parry it over the bar as the clash went to extra-time.
Middendorp's troops continued to put on pressure early in extra-time and they were rewarded with a penalty in the fourth minute of extra-time after Abel Mabaso blocked Erick Mathoho's shot with his. Daniel Cardoso stepped up to make it 2-1 from the spot-kick with a clinical low strike from 12-yards.
However, Pirates hit back in the tenth minute of extra-time through substitute Gabadinho Mhango, who scored with his first involvement, after guiding a low shot past Akpeyi after being setup by Lorch.
The match was stretching from end to end in the closing stages, but the sides could not be separated in extra-time and the match went to penalties, where Akpeyi was the hero for Chiefs after saving to penalties as the AmaKhosi won 4-2 on penalties.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
Chiefs: 43. Akpeyi, 20. Sasman, 3. Mathoho, 4. Cardoso, 45. Blom, 31. Katsande, 12. Maluleka, 21. Manyama, 9. Nurkovic, 11. Billiat, 8. Castro
Subs: 44. Bvuma, 25. Parker, 7. Kambole, 22. Zulu, 28. Zuma, 30. Ngezana, 36. Ntiya-Ntiya.
Pirates: 30. Sandilands, 28. Dube, 4. Jele, 23. Maela, 5. Nyauza, 27. Motshwari, 18. Dlamini, 15. Makaringe, 45. Pule, 3. Lorch, 16. Mabasa.
Subs: 1. Delle, 18. Chabalala, 44. Mabaso, 29. Mako, 7. Mhango, 12. Shonga, 17. Mulenga.
