
# When is episode 4 of ‘See’ airing on Apple TV+?

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:31:50+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hall**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/06/episode-4-see-apple-tv-plus/)

See is one of many new offerings on Apple’s new Apple TV+ streaming service, and at launch, only 3 of its 8 total episodes were available to stream. Now that you’ve watched all three, you might be wondering when you can expect to get more of Jason Momoa, Sylvia Hoeks, Alfre Woodard, and more. Here’s when you should expect episode 4 of ‘See’ to air on Apple TV+.
Apple has announced that the remaining seven episodes of See will be available on Apple TV+ on a weekly basis — starting on November 8th with episode 4.
Unfortunately, given that this is the first week of weekly Apple TV+ releases, we don’t know exactly when See episode 4 will become available. Thankfully, with episodes 5 through 8, we should know exactly what time to turn on the TV and check Apple’s service.
For a complete roundup of everything Apple TV+ subscribers will have access to, be sure to check out our full guide. There, you’ll find every Apple original television show and movie available now on Apple TV+, as well as the latest trailers and what you can expect to come in the future.

        You’re reading 9to5Mac — experts who break news about Apple and its surrounding ecosystem, day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow 9to5Mac on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our exclusive stories, reviews, how-tos, and subscribe to our YouTube channel.
      
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
