
# Boris Johnson to use UK election launch to insist Brexit must get done quickly

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:35:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/boris-johnson-to-use-uk-election-launch-to-insist-brexit-must-get-done-quickly-962085.html)

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will kick off the Conservative election campaign by promising to “get Brexit done”.
Mr Johnson will use the launch of the Tory bid to stay to stay in power to put withdrawal from the EU, the NHS and law and order centre stage in the campaign.
As well as firing the starting pistol for the Conservative campaign in the West Midlands tomorrow, the British PM is expected to go to Buckingham Palace for an audience with the UK's Queen, and announce the start of the election drive in Downing Street.
Mr Johnson is expected to say: “There is only one way to get Brexit done, and I am afraid the answer is to ask the people to change this blockading parliament.
“I don’t want an election. No prime minister wants an early election, especially not in December.
“But as things stand we simply have no choice – because it is only by getting Brexit done in the next few weeks that we can focus on all the priorities of the British people.”
Mr Johnson will say that Britain needs to change.
He is expected to say: “It’s time to change the dismal pattern of the last three years and to get out of our rut.
“It’s time to end this debilitating delay.
“Let’s go with this Conservative government, get Brexit done, and unleash the potential of our great country- delivering on the public’s priorities of our NHS, crime and the cost of living.
“Meanwhile the alternative is clear – Jeremy Corbyn and his two favourite advisers, dither and delay, turning 2020 into the year of two miserable referendums, one on the EU, and another on Scotland.
“And remember that a vote for any other minor party is effectively a vote for Corbyn, and his catastrophic political and economic programme.”
