
# KSI and Logan Paul take a back seat as their trainers almost come to blows

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:52:20+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/ksi-logan-paul-take-back-20837550)

KSI and Logan Paul took a back seat as their trainers almost came to blows in Hollywood.
The YouTube stars came together for the penultimate time before the first bell of their rematch on Saturday.
But it was former heavyweight world champion Shannon Briggs who stole the limelight.
Briggs will be in Paul's corner for the sequel at the Staples Center while KSI has been trained by professional fighter Viddal Riley.
And it was the coaches who traded insults across the stage.
Briggs said: "This is great for boxing, it's going to introduce new boxing fans to the sport.
"I had to be part of it, I've been connected to Logan for 25 years through a guy I met on the street, Paulo, who is now his manager.
"This is a great opportunity but my man has the ability and I know he can be the champ because I did it twice
"This is the pro ranks and you came to this fight with a butter knife of a trainer.
"This is war, you're going to get beat up real bad. I said to Logan you better put this guy in hospital."
Riley, who is unbeaten after three fights and trained by Jeff Mayweather, Floyd's uncle, responded: "I've been part of YouTube boxing from the beginning when KSI fought Joe Weller when no-one cared.
"We're ready to fight; Logan, good luck, you'll need it.
"I'm going to make sure he hurts you badly, and Shannon, you can go back to to taking drugs and having no contests."
Security then had to intervene as Briggs and Riley attempted to get to each other on the stage.
Both fighters then traded insultrs of their own, each promising to knock the other out.
Paul said: "He's going to get hurt in the head, he's going to get several concussions.
"I'm surprised his manager is willing to let him go through with this"I think he he's underestimated how much I've been training for the last year while he's been touring with his music."
At that stage Paul decided to turn the press conference into a maths quiz with KSI struggling to answer what seven multiplied by eight is.
The rest of the event descended into a farce as Paul claimed his rival was no longer fighting a man, but an animal.
"Ok then, I can't wait to kill this animal," came the retort.
A lengthy face-off followed which was only broken by KSI pushing Paul across the stage.
