
# Prager University Loses Another Of Its Silly Lawsuits Against YouTube Over Non-Existent 'Bias'

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Masnick**

Original: [Techdirt](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20191102/01002843311/prager-university-loses-another-silly-lawsuits-against-youtube-over-non-existent-bias.shtml)

Dennis Prager has been peddling complete and utter nonsense via his PragerU efforts for quite some time, and it expands beyond that too, because he's been peddling complete and utter nonsense in his still ongoing joke of a lawsuit against YouTube in which he tries to insist that YouTube is biased against conservatives because they put a small number of his videos in "restricted mode." This, despite the facts that (1) YouTube has no legal obligation to host his videos (for free!) in the first place, (2) less than 1.5% of people use "restricted mode" in the first place, (3) "Restricted mode" is to help parents block inappropriate content from kids, (4) the videos that were put into restricted mode had content that many would consider inappropriate for kids, and (5) most importantly, YouTube showed that many other sites -- including those that people consider to be "liberal" had their videos put in restricted mode at a much higher rate than PragerU.
Prager still sued, and a court tossed out the lawsuit with ease last year -- though Prager and his true believers keep pointing to it as some sort of "proof" even though it's not. The lawsuit is still ongoing, sort of. They appealed the original ruling, and the appeals court recently heard arguments in it. I would be shocked if the original ruling wasn't affirmed, but you never know (crazy 9th circuit and all...).
However, there was a separate case filed as well, in California state court. That's because when Judge Koh tossed out the federal case, she focused on all the nonsense federal claims, and noted that she was also tossing out the state claims without analysis, because without the federal claims the case didn't belong in federal court. So, PragerU turned around and sued in state court as well.
And now the state court has tossed out that lawsuit as well. The ruling is pretty thorough and makes fairly quick work of calling out PragerU's ridiculous legal theories for what they are. I've seen more than a few people kicked off of social media platforms insist that California law is on their side, based on some odd readings of both the California Constitution and the so-called Unruh Act. Prager uses both in this case (even though it's not even for being kicked off a platform, just moderated). And the court doesn't buy it. It laughs off the idea that California's constitutional protections of free speech mean YouTube is required to host your nonsense:
And then of course there's Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act which the court rightly notes makes this entire case silly. What's interesting here is that the court actually does an analysis based on section (c)(2) of CDA 230. Nearly all CDA cases are based on section (c)(1), which is the part focused on correctly applying liability. (c)(2) is the part that directly talks about why sites should be free to moderate and not held liable for their own moderation choices. I've always found it odd that even in past moderation cases, courts have mostly still just relied on (c)(1) and ignored (c)(2) even though it has even more relevance.
Here, the court actually does look at (c)(2) and highlights how Prager misrepresents it. Here's Section 230(c)(2) in case you've forgotten it:
PragerU tried to argue that putting its videos into restricted mode were not done "in good faith" as noted in part (A). First off, that's silly. There is no evidence that anything was not done in good faith. But, more to the point, the judge notes that PragerU is actually pretending that part (B) has a "good faith" requirement, as that's the most relevant section. And there is no good faith requirement there.
PragerU really leaned hard on the "good faith" claim, but the court says "nope."
It goes on to explain that requiring good faith in all aspects of 230 protected moderation would force companies to regularly have to defend each and every editorial decision "on a case by case basis" and that would undermine the entire point of Section 230.
The court also laughs off PragerU's ridiculous argument that YouTube's content moderation practices remove immunity under (c)(1) because its moderation choices create liability (again, this would undermine the entire point of CDA 230).
A claim of "prior restraint" is also easily dismissed:
Lastly, Prager argued that this bit of moderation somehow was a "breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing under California's Unfair Competition Law (UCL)." Again, the court has a quick "nope" for the legal geniuses from PragerU:
The court also discusses another of PragerU's laughable theories -- that YouTube's public statements that "the same standards apply equally to all" makes their UCL argument valid. The court again explains how that makes no sense:
In short, as basically everyone has said all along, there is no legal argument here. There is nothing but nonsense. Just like PragerU itself.
Prager University v Google (PDF) Prager University v Google (Text)
