
# Pitso: I Was Benni’s Biggest Fan!

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:52:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/pitso-mosimane-opens-up-about-benni-mccarthy-s-departure/666760)

Pitso Mosimane had some emotional words to say about Benni McCarthy’s departure from Cape Town City.
The Citizens shockingly announced at midnight on Sunday that they’ve terminated the contract of McCarthy, with Vasili Manousakis taking over the helm of the team in the interim.

        
          Read more: Benni Breaks Silence After City Exit
        
      
The timing of their announcement took the entire football fraternity by surprise, with many revealing their disappointment, especially Pitso Mosimane.
“I am very, very saddened by the Benni McCarthy sacking. I was his biggest fan, admiring how he taught his team to play the right way of playing football,” Mosimane said on his official Twitter account.
“His team could build up play from the back like what big teams do in Europe (Man City, Bayern, Liverpool etc.)
“A typical example of his work was the goal that Cape Town City scored against Kaizer Chiefs. A coaching clip for coaches and those who believe in good football. 
“(He is) a big loss to SA football (and) I hope he remains in the Premier Soccer League to transfer his philosophy to another team. 
“Some players went to play for Cape Town City just to play for him. (He is) a very good coach (and) I salute you Benni. You can walk away with pride especially after delivering a trophy in just a year and half,” Mosimane concluded. 
