
# 'I Am The Greatest Player In History For Trophies Won'

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:02:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/world-news/i-am-the-greatest-player-in-history-for-trophies-won/666797)

Brazil international Dani Alves has been heavily criticised for his form at Sao Paulo of late, but the FC Barcelona legend has now hit back at his critics in emphatic style.

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
Following a two-season stint with Ligue 1 giants Paris Saint-Germain, Alves returned to Brazil to join Sao Paulo, the team he supported as a child, in what is regarded as one of the biggest deals in Brazilian football history.
The 36-year-old scored on debut for the club but has seen his form dip in recent weeks, prompting a barrage of criticism from local media and fans, particularly after Tricolor's recent defeat to rivals Palmeiras.
Alves has since hit back, claiming that his record career haul of 40 trophies – 23 of which came with Barcelona – is evidence that he is not at fault for the club's struggles.

        Click through the gallery below to see the players with most trophies in history:
      
"There is no stability in Brazil. How can you build a career here?" Alves asked, as reported by La Gazzetta Dello Sport.
"I've only been here for three months and I'm already useless (according to the press).
"I am the greatest player in history for trophies won, yet there is a debate about my usefulness or not.
"I played for eight years in Barca and won 23 titles because there is stability there, things are not built overnight."

        
          Read: Incredible Messi Stat Makes Mockery Of All-Time Greats
        
      
Prior to his move to Sao Paulo, Alves was named the Most Valuable Player of the Tournament at the 2019 Copa America, where he captained Brazil to their first tournament title since 2007.
