
# Couple didn't recognise their own babies after twins born dangerously premature

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:03:04+00:00**

Author: **Sam Truelove**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/couple-didnt-recognise-babies-after-20793394)

Newborn twins who were born nearly four months premature - weighing less than a tin of bins - have made a miraculous recovery.
Candice Jardine, 29, and Tom Dallinger, 31 couldn't recognise their tiny babies after they were born weighing less than 2lb each.
The couple had to have their twins pointed out to them by hospital staff as they fought for their lives in an incubator, the Liverpool Echo reports.
Candice and Tom, from Wallasey, Wirral rushed to Arrowe Park Hospital when Candice started feeling pains just over half way through her pregnancy.
Doctors told the expecting mum she was in labour and a day later she gave birth to their tiny twins Teddy and Sofia.
 
But it wasn't the amazing moment Candice had envisaged.
"There was no initial hold your baby, bond with your baby, enjoy the moment that you've waited for for nine months," she said.
"We didn't even know which babies were ours, we had to be shown which incubators our babies were in and then you look at them through a glass box."
Teddy and Sofia were transferred to the Neonatal Unit at Wirral Women and Children’s Hospital for specialist intensive care.
When they first visited them, Candice and Tom had to have their twins pointed out to them by staff.
It was a painful process for the young family, with the twins spending two and a half months in hospital fighting for their lives.
They were saved due to the "phenomenal staff" at the neonatal unit, Tom said.
 
He said: "The care, the staff, was phenomenal. They went out of their way to make us, as parents, feel comfortable.
"Anything we needed they were there, in terms of personal and emotional support they went out of their way to make sure we were ok.
"We can't thank them enough."
Gorgeous twins Teddy and Sofia are now at home with their parents and growing up well.
There are plans to refurbish and expand the Neonatal Unit at Wirral Women and Children’s Hospital in the future, providing a better space for sick babies to be cared for.
Wirral University Teaching Hospital Charity’s ‘Tiny Stars’ appeal is aiming to raise £1.5 million over the next three years to fund the project.
Dr Sanjeev Rath, Neonatal Consultant at Wirral University Teaching Hospital, said: "We provide intensive care to the most vulnerable babies who are very sick. 
"Our aim is to get a unit with adequate space for each baby and their family which will also help with infection control.”
New parents Tom and Candice have taken part in WUTH Charity’s Tiny Stars appeal video to highlight the great care they received from staff on the Unit and encourage support for the appeal.
Tom said: “I think people should donate because it’s a service that you will never know you need; we didn’t until we were in the situation.
"For them to provide the right level of care and support, they need the right equipment and the right space.”
For more information about WUTH Charity and the Tiny Stars appeal, please visit wuthcharity.org/video , email wuth.charity@nhs.net or call into the Charity Office at the main entrance of Arrowe Park Hospital.
