
# [Update 2: Snapdragon 730G] Xiaomi shows off Mi Watch UI and Mi CC9 Pro’s 50x zoom capability

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Aamir Siddiqui**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/xiaomi-mi-watch-ui-miui-mi-cc9-pro-50x-zoom-capability/)


        Update (11/2/19 @ 9:15 AM ET): Xiaomi has confirmed that the Mi CC9 Pro / Mi Note 10 will come with the Qualcomm Snapdragon 730G SoC, and has shared some more details on its camera.Update (11/1/19 @ 11:10 AM ET): Widely assumed to be called the “Mi Watch,” Xiaomi has seemingly confirmed the name with a GitHub repo. Scroll to the bottom for updates. The article as published on October 30, 2019, is preserved as below.
      
Xiaomi is in full teaser mode for the launch of its upcoming smartphone, smartwatch and smart TV, as the company continues to drip-feed information about the products before the official unveiling. Taking to its official Weibo channels, Xiaomi has revealed more information on the products, as well as shown some of their highlight features.
Starting off on the new information since the last post, Xiaomi has confirmed that the Mi Watch will come with the Qualcomm Snapdragon Wear 3100 Platform.
Thanks to the eSIM capabilities of the watch as well as the presence of a speaker, we guessed that users will be able to place calls from the smartwatch. Xiaomi confirmed the same as well. The company also released more official product renders, giving us a good look at the watch from several angles.
The Mi Watch looks like an Apple Watch, but has some more sharpness in its design, trading away the pleasant curves. I would personally have preferred a bevel or a chamfer on the lower edges, which would have made the watch more comfortable to wear.
Xiaomi also showed off a few screen previews of the OS on the watch.
With the Mi Watch, Xiaomi envisages a smartwatch that is basically a miniaturized smartphone, with the ability to install apps, control your smart home and more. Xiaomi is calling the UX as MIUI for Watch.
