
# Kibra electrified in final push for votes ahead of Thursday poll

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:37:44+00:00**

Author: **JOSEPH MURAYA**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kibra-electrified-in-final-push-for-votes-ahead-of-thursday-poll/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 3 – Kibra constituency pulsated on Sunday afternoon, as the scramble for votes intensified, on the eve of  campaigns deadline, Monday and ahead of the November 7 by-election .
      

        The main rallies were those of Jubilee’s candidate McDonald Mariga at the DC’s grounds, while Imran Okoth of the Orange Democratic Movement was in Woodley.
      
ADVERTISEMENT
In the ODM rally, Raila Odinga led a team that cut across the political divide, with among the notable leader’s present being Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Nominated MP Maina Kamanda, among others.
Also present was Governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni).
“I urge Kibra residents to cast their votes carefully since this by-election is bigger than you can imagine,” MP Kamanda said.
Odinga anchored his sentiments on his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta, saying, “A vote for Okoth is a vote for unity … without unity, there can never be development.”
At the DC’s grounds, leaders affiliated to Deputy President William Ruto pitched camp, among them Kikuyu legislator Kimani Ichung’wa and National Assembly Leader of Majority Adan Duale.
DP Ruto said with Mariga, Kibra stands a better chance to eliminate poverty after decades of being in the opposition.
“Raila has joined the Government through a bridge called handshake, why does he want you to be left in the opposition?” he asked thousands of Kibra residents, who attended the rally.
He highlighted some of the projects the National Government intends to undertake in Kibra, saying already much work was done by the National Youth Service, during the Jubilee Government first term.
“Vote for Mariga and he will join the President and myself to work for you,” he said.
Mariga has committed to ensure proper use of Kibra’s Constituency Development Fund, in a bid to build on the late Ken Okoth’s legacy.
According to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), there are 118,658 registered voters in Kibra.
 
Post Views: 191
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
