
# Tory councillor and former deputy provost 'touched and kissed waiter' at posh do

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Charlie Gall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/charlie-gall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/tory-councillor-former-deputy-provost-20785423)

A businessman told a court yesterday of his surprise when he saw a deputy provost plant a kiss on a waiter at a posh dinner.
Bruce Campbell, 57, an electrical engineer, said he was “100 per cent clear” on what he’d seen at a civic function in Aberdeen.
He was giving evidence at the trial of Alan Donnelly, 65, a Tory councillor and deputy provost of the city at the time of an alleged sexual assault.
Campbell said the formal part of an eight-course dinner on November 3 was over when he saw Donnelly chatting to a young male waiter.
 
He said: “I saw Mr Donnelly give him a kiss on the cheek and he may have put his hand on his arm.”
Campbell said he was surprised.
He had never seen “anything like that happen” at civic occasions at the venue. He remembered it clearly because he had only drunk one glass of wine as he had to propose a toast at the end.
Joanna Rozycka, 36, in charge of running the event, said the waiter came to her “trembling and shaking” after the encounter.
She said: “He felt that he was sexually abused because he was being touched around the waist. He was kissed on the cheek and was told he was too beautiful to work in this place.”
She said the waiter handed her Donnelly’s business card identifying him as a councillor.
Rozycka said: “He said Mr Donnelly told him to contact any time however he would expect him to be grateful in return.”
Donnelly denies sexual assault.
His trial was adjourned until December.
