
# Bank behind scandal-hit Edinburgh Sick Kids' NHS hospital helped finance £50m Man United transfer

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **John Ferguson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-ferguson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/bank-behind-scandal-hit-edinburgh-20797535)

The bank behind the scandal-hit Royal Hospital for Children in Edinburgh helped to finance the £50million transfer of a Premier League footballer.
Manchester United bought defender Aaron Wan-Bissaka from Crystal Palace in the summer – but it has emerged Australian firm Macquarie was involved in the deal.
It lent Palace £22.5million to cover an instalment not due from United until next year.
The transaction would have been brokered about the same time it was revealed that NHS Lothian’s new sick kids facility would not be able to open because of safety concerns.
The hospital was built by a PFI-style private consortium led by Macquarie.
Labour’s health spokeswoman Monica Lennon said: “It’s ridiculous that bankers and private shareholders are making millions from the Sick Kids fiasco.
 
“This has been a very bad deal for the public who are stuck with a ghost hospital while one of the companies involved has quickly moved on to profit from ever more creative finance deals.
“This is yet more evidence why the SNP’s version of PFI must be shown the red card.”
A public inquiry was ordered last month after patients were unable to move into the Royal Hospital for Children in July over safety concerns.
The hospital is not expected to be fully operational until next autumn.
Despite the hold-up, £1.4million of taxpayers’ money is being paid to Intergrated Health Solutions Lothian (IHSL) every month in contract repayments.
 
Minutes of an NHS Lothian board meeting revealed last week show there were 2000 snagging issues with the hospital.
Documents also showed that a planned legal challenge was dropped in favour of paying IHSL £11.6million to settle the outstanding issues – a move approved by the Scottish Government.
Last month, the Sunday Mail revealed how Macquarie used another major private finance project to generate £392million. Macquarie was criticised over the figure it made on the back of the building of the M6 toll road in the Midlands in 2006.
The Australian finance group, which was the project’s owner at the time, rearranged debt facilities “releasing” the money, prompting claims of a PFI rip-off.
It emerged last week more problems with electrical and fire systems at Edinburgh’s hospital have been found.
A report into safety issues has identified “major” issues in critical care areas.
It has been reported a lack of qualified staff for electrical installation was identified by the NHS review.
The National Services Scotland report found problems including a need for mitigation to avoid the failure of the single electrical supply to equipment such as life support systems.
The Sunday Mail has revealed how lobbying and communications agency Charlotte Street Partners – which has strong links to the SNP – is representing IHSL.
Macquarie said: “Each day we support our different customers in many different ways. These activities have no connection whatsoever.”
