
# Police chief believes community councils are 'not reflective of communities'

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:32:27+00:00**

Author: **Stirling Observer, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stirling-observer/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/police-chief-believes-community-councils-20808517)


        Forth Valley’s top cop believes community councils “are not necessarily reflective of their communities”.
      
Chief Superintendent Thom McLaughlin said officers felt social media was a better way of engaging with residents.
Stirling councillors in 2018 praised the work of community councils as efforts were made to encourage people to stand for election to the bodies.
However, at a meeting of the council’s public safety committee last week, Chief Supt McLaughlin said he wanted to see community councils become “more reflective of their communities.”
He was commenting on publication of a report showing Police Scotland attended less than half of the community council meetings in the Stirling area in 2018-19.
Officers are tasked with attending community councils and presenting a report on the latest incidents of crime in the area then answering questions from community councils and members of the public.
However, the report showed Police Scotland attended 33 of 69 community council meetings in the Stirling area in 2018-19. Only one of the meetings not attended failed to receive a police report.
Police failure to turn up to meetings has been a source of annoyance among community councils and Stirling councillors for some years but Chief Supt McLaughlin said the reasons given for not attending include: officers being on a working rest day, annual leave and being engaged in an ongoing incident.
Chief Supt McLaughlin, who took over as divisional commander for Forth Valley in 2017, told the committee they were more engaged with social media as a means of interacting with the community and said he would like to see some way of making community councils “more reflective of their communities.”
But Labour councillor for Stirling East Chris Kane, a former community councillor in Braehead, told the meeting: “A good community council can reflect their community.”
And imploring people to stand for election to community councils in October, 2018, Councillor Kane said they “perform a vital role in local democracy, acting as a voice for communities and bringing people together to make their areas better places in which to live”.
Reacting to the comments of Chief Supt McLaughlin, Trossachs and Teith councillor Martin Earl, a former chair of the public safety committee said: “I really don’t think these comments are very helpful and I am not sure what was meant by them.
“Community councils are formed by volunteers coming forward and doing their best to represent their communities. There have been excellent examples of joint working between local police and community councils, such as establishing surgeries in the villages where the public can meet the police to raise or discuss issues in private.The police are having to do more with less unfortunately but face-to-face contact is still vitally important so while I acknowledge the effectiveness of social media it must not replace police visibility in communities.”
After the meeting, Green councillor for Bridge of Allan and Dunblane Alasdair Tollemache said: “Police in my ward liaise well with the public and community councils receive monthly reports and their attendance allows members to ask questions and suggest initiatives. Local councillors have regular meetings with the police and we all work together to keep our communities safe . There are issues that arise when it is good to have a forum to discuss areas of concern such as antisocial behaviour.”

        
          Click here for more news and sport from the Stirling area.
        
      
