
# Pelosi: Public impeachment hearings likely in November

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:09:41+00:00**

Author: **Susan Ferrechio**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/congress/pelosi-public-impeachment-hearings-likely-in-november)

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said public impeachment hearings will likely begin this month but would not set a deadline for when the House would complete its investigation.
“I would assume there would be public hearings in November,” the California Democrat told Bloomberg in a Friday interview.
The House voted Thursday along party lines to pass a resolution that affirms an ongoing impeachment investigation and outlines the next steps, which include a series of public hearings conducted by the Intelligence Committee and Judiciary Committee.
Democrats have so far declined to set a deadline on the process, which will likely conclude with a House vote on articles of impeachment.
The investigation may not be concluded by the end of the year, stretching impeachment into 2020, a possibility Pelosi refused to rule out.
“There is — I should say — a mountain of concerns to be brought up,” Pelosi said.
Pelosi acknowledged concerns that the public’s appetite for impeachment, which according to polling already divides the country sharply, may wane further.
“When does the law of diminished returns set in?” Pelosi said.
Democrats have so far been conducting the impeachment investigation behind closed doors in a secure hearing room in the basement of the Capitol.
Three current and former Trump administration officials are invited to testify behind closed doors next week, including two Trump lawyers who are unlikely to show up as well as former National Security Adviser John Bolton, who suggested he’ll testify if he is compelled by a subpoena.
