
# Tha Block Is Hot Turns 20

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:19:24+00:00**

Author: **Tom Breihan**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2063521/tha-block-is-hot-turns-20/franchises/the-anniversary/)

While he was still a child, Lil Wayne watched his father leave and his stepfather die. He attempted suicide, shooting himself in the chest. He became a father. He achieved regional bounce-rap stardom, linking up with the ascendant New Orleans indie Cash Money records. He joined a rap supergroup. He turned in probably the catchiest part of Cash Money’s breakout national single, ad-libbing “wobbledy wobbledy” over the outro of Juvenile’s “Back That Azz Up” and unwittingly coining a catchphrase. And a month after he turned 17, Wayne released an album that would be Platinum within two months.
That album, Tha Block Is Hot, turns 20 tomorrow. Tha Block Is Hot does not offer too much indication that Wayne would eventually become the greatest, most popular, most influential rapper of his generation — not unless you listen hard, and with the benefit of hindsight.
When Lil Wayne first showed up on the national scene, he was a curio. Cash Money Records, Wayne’s label, had suddenly become a powerhouse. A year or two earlier, Master P’s No Limit label, the crosstown rivals of Cash Money, had crossed over in an enormous way. They were loud and flashy and visually dazzling, and they seemed to release a lavishly packaged new album every week. Cash Money, on the other hand, was small and controlled. They had a whole aesthetic — enormous white T-shirts, bandannas, diamonds on their teeth. They had their own kind of glitz, but they rejected the theatrical flair of No Limit. (On “Tha Block Is Hot,” Wayne mentions that they “ain’t got on no suits cuz we ain’t tryna be presidents.” I’ve always understood that as a shot at No Limit.)
Cash Money, as a crew, only had six rappers, which meant you could keep them all straight. One of those rappers was Juvenile, who’d just released the generational landmark 400 Degreez. Of the crew, Juvenile was the clear star — the guy with the seen-it-all eyes and the rumbling singsong drawl and the hits. Wayne was more of a novelty. As in: The guy who says “wobbledy wobbledy” is 16 years old? And he doesn’t cuss on records? Because his mom won’t let him? He seemed like a gimmick. But gimmicks can work.
It was true: Wayne, out of respect for his mother, did not cuss on records until he made his debut album. Wayne had a loose definition of what constituted a cussword; he still threw around N-words and offered to kill people. And on Tha Block Is Hot, he made his transition to cussing-rapper status into an event: “Look, I don’t curse / But in this verse, man, fuck the world.” By the time he spoke that line, Wayne might have been the world’s youngest rap veteran.
At eight, Wayne had freestyled a verse into the answering machine of Cash Money boss Bryan “Birdman” Williams and gotten himself signed to the label. Birdman had paired him up with BG, another young rap prospect, turning the two of them into the duo BG’z. BG’z put out their first album, 1994’s True Story, when Wayne was 11. In 1997, Cash Money put Wayne and BG together with Juvenile and Turk, turning them into the Cash Money supergroup known as the Hot Boys. A year later, Birdman signed Cash Money to a massive distribution deal with Universal, and all those Cash Money rappers went national.
In those early days, Cash Money presented itself as a unified front. Everyone rapped on everyone else’s records and showed up in everyone else’s videos. The irrepressibly silly Mannie Fresh produced every song on every album, and his style — ratatat drum-machine snares, urgent sonar bleeps, second-line horn blats — gave them a sonic identity. Other than the disastrous Jay-Z guest turn on Juvenile’s “Ha” remix, Cash Money didn’t bring in outside rappers, and they didn’t often guest on other rappers’ songs. They were their own universe.
