
# Pastrnak sparks Bruins' 5-2 win over Senators

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:20:37+00:00**

Author: **KEN POWTAK, Associated Press**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/sports/pastrnak-sparks-bruins-52-win-over-senators/1004470845?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

BOSTON - It took a while for players from the Boston Bruins and Ottawa to regain their focus after a scary injury to Senators' forward Scott Sabourin.
When they did, the Bruins took over late in posting yet another win in their torrid start this season.
David Pastrnak had a goal and two assists as the Bruins beat Ottawa 5-2 Saturday night, in a game in which Sabourin was taken to a hospital for evaluation after being taken off on a stretcher.
Sabourin was taken from the ice with his head immobilized following a collision with David Backes in which the players' helmets hit at nearly full speed early in the first period. Sabourin gave the crowd a "thumbs up" as he was taken from the arena.
"You've got to try to stay focused, but it's obviously not easy," Boston center Patrice Bergeron said. "In that moment, your thoughts and prayers are with Scott. You hope he's got a speedy recovery and our side the same thing with Backs."
Backes went to the dressing after Sabourin was taken from the ice and didn't return. The Bruins announced that Backes had an upper-body injury. He was visibly upset, fighting back tears, as medical personnel attended to Sabourin.
Brad Marchand, Danton Heinen, Jake DeBrusk and Bergeron also scored for Boston (10-1-2), which has lost just once in regulation. The Bruins have won five straight.
Tuukka Rask made 30 saves for the Bruins, including eight when Boston was short-handed for six straight minutes.
Anthony Duclair and Connor Brown scored for Ottawa. The Senators (3-8-1) have the NHL's worst record with just seven points. Craig Anderson stopped 27 shots.
After colliding with Backes, Sabourin fell to the ice and appeared to be unconscious. There was a large blood spot on the ice under his face.
"There's hatred and all that, but at the end of the day we're all brothers in this game," Senators defenseman Mark Borowiecki said. "That could have just as easily been one of us. You just can't help but think about Sabby and his parents and his finacée watching that. It hits you."
The Senators sent an update on their Twitter saying Sabourin was conscious and speaking with the attending doctors while leaving the arena.
