
# Tomb of Tutankhamun's step-mum could be found within days, Egyptologist claims

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:52:44+00:00**

Author: **Kelly-Ann Mills, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/tomb-tutankhamuns-step-mum-could-20825970)

A leading archaeologist claims his team is just days away from discovering the tomb of Queen Nefertiti - who was the step-mother of Tutankhamun.
Dr Zahi Hawass was at the launch of his latest exhibition at the Saatchi Gallery in London when he made the bold claims.
The 72-year-old Egyptologist is leading the largest excavation in the Valley of the Kings since the 1920s and says the discovery of Queen Nefertiti's tomb is its main aim.
Speaking to the Daily Star Online, Dr Hawass said the discovery of the tomb for the Queen, who died in 1331 and had been married to Tutankhamun's father Akhenaten, would be remarkable.
  
Dr Hawass said: "All of the Queens that were buried in the 18th Dynasty were buried in this valley and I'm hoping, since my excavation is the largest after Howard Carter, I'm hoping to discover a royal tomb soon.
"I think something soon will happen behind the tomb of Bereibita, we are expecting something in a week or so."
The archaeologist was speaking at the launch of the Tutankhamun: Treasures of the Golden Pharoh exhibition, which shows off items found in King Tut's tomb.
It is the first time these relics have been seen outside Egypt.
Nefertiti’s third-born daughter, Ankhesenpaaten, later became King Tut’s queen despite also being his half-sister, making Nefertiti his mother-in-law, the Daily Star reports.
The Queen mysteriously disappeared from the history books for years, until a bust of her was discovred in 1912.
