
# Premier League relegation odds - Aston Villa's survival chances rated

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Husband, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/ben-husband/, Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-relegation-odds-survival-17035130)

Aston Villa are back where they belong and in the top flight of English football.
Villa returned to the Premier League with Dean Smith at the helm last season after progressing through the Championship play-offs.
The opening ten league games of the season have seen the Lions rack up 11 points from a possible 30 on offer, and currently lie in 15th place in the table.
After winning two games on the spin, Dean Smith's men were beaten 3-0 at The Etihad Stadium as Manchester City made their second half pressure pay.
 
Liverpool are up next for Villa, who progressed through to the quarter-finals of the Carabao Cup on Wednesday night beating Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-1.
That defeat at City has altered the market for relegation odds and we've compiled the latest below...
Norwich City - 8/15
Watford - 10/11
Newcastle United - 21/20
Southampton - 2/1

        Aston Villa - 12/5
      
Sheffield United - 10/3
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Burnley - 4/1
Brighton & Hove Albion - 17/4
Bournemouth - 13/2
Crystal Palace - 8/1
*Odds provided by thepools.com and correct at the time of writing
