
# Rakuten Enables Online Shopping Rebates Through American Express Membership Rewards

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Grant Martin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/grantmartin/2019/11/03/rakuten-enables-online-shopping-rebates-through-american-express-membership-rewards/)

Rakuten, the portal that gives online shoppers a rebate by clicking through affiliate links, is expanding its relationship with American Express. In February, the company formerly known as Ebates announced a new partnership with American Express that allowed new users of the platform to earn American Express Membership Rewards points instead of cash back for affiliate link purchases. Now, as of October 31st, Rakuten is expanding that offer to all current members of its shopping ranks.Rakuten’s relationship with American Express is unique because of the way in which Membership Rewards users are able leverage their points. Right now, the loyalty program is well regarded as a powerful tool to earn and distribute points to a wide spectrum of travel programs. Owners of the American Express Platinum card (which comes with a $550 annual fee), for example, earn five points for every dollar spent in many travel-related categories. Those that frequently buy airline tickets or hotel rooms, can thus quickly rack up points and then transfer them to loyalty programs from likes of British Airways or Marriott to earn additional flights or award nights.
The extension of Membership Rewards points-earning into the Rakuten network is just another vehicle for savvy shoppers to skim more margin out of the system. That same American Express Platinum member might earn five points per dollar spent on Choice Hotels, for example, but now another 1-2% rebate can be earned by going through the Rakuten portal.
Other channels outside of travel are also more lucrative within the Rakuten network. Amazon shoppers, for example, earn up to 5% cash back while Macy’s and Saks Fifth Avenue visitors can earn up to 10%. Rakuten claims to have over 2,500 stores within its network.
“We know our Card Members want more ways to earn more points with the brands they love,” says Chris Cracchiolo, Senior Vice President, Global Membership Rewards & Loyalty Benefits at American Express. “We are excited to expand our relationship with Rakuten to offer our shared customers and new customer segments more opportunities to earn Membership Rewards points than ever before.”
To earn Membership Rewards point rebates off of purchases, Rakuten has set up a new portal for current members to link accounts. Once accounts are linked, shoppers need only to select Memebership Rewards as a rebate option over cash or check back and then wait for a quarterly disbursement to appear. Only American Express credit card holders that participate in the Membership Rewards program are eligible for the new rebates.
