
# Alfredo Morelos hailed as Rangers talisman and Steven Gerrard explains why he'll never get bored praising him

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:14:19+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/alfredo-morelos-hailed-rangers-talisman-20837603)

Steven Gerrard says he will never tired of raving about Alfredo Morelos as Rangers moved within touching distance of Europa League progress.
The Colombian struck gold with a second half volley before adding an assist for Steven Davis as the Light Blues grabbed a priceless 2-0 win over Porto.
Rangers will now qualify for the last 32 in the new year if they defeat Feyenoord in a fortnight after Dick Advocaat’s side were held to a 1-1 draw in Rotterdam by Young Boys.
Rangers joined the Swiss at the top of Group G courtesy of Morelos, who scored his 21st goal of the season to ensure his side maintained their record of never losing to Portuguese opposition at home.
His performance earned plaudits from his boss and added still further to his burgeoning reputation as Rangers reluctantly prepare to cash in on their most valuable player at the end of the season.
Gerrard said: “We will never run out of things to say about Alfredo because he keeps providing moments and performances like tonight.
“You look across the landscape of European football and everyone has a talisman - some teams are lucky to have three or four. Alfredo is ours.
He’s a massive, massive asset to this club.
“Players like that, who keep providing game changing moments, deserve to be applauded and praised.
“Alfredo is a top footballer and I can’t describe how much I enjoy working with him. He is in a fantastic place and long may it continue.
“I got him off the pitch at the end just in case because we know he was carrying two yellow cards and it’s important we have him available for Feyenoord.”
Gerrard admits his side were struggling to break down the well organised Portuguese, who had comfortably contained Rangers until Morelos struck in the 69th minute.
The game was in the bag four minutes later when a deflected strike from Davis, his first goal since returning to Rangers, sealed the vital three points.
Gerrard added: “This result is right up there with the best I’ve experienced in my time here.
“I loved the play before the opener. James Tavernier was positive and slid in to get the ball to Ryan Jack when he was second favourite to win it.
“I loved the way Jacko showed composure and pulled it back rather than delivering the ball first time.
“The finish was stunning and that’s the reason why we talk about Alfredo Morelos every two or three days. He deserves to be praised. I’ll never get bored of talking about him. He’s a fantastic player.
“I’m sure people will try and find problems with Porto and the reason why they weren’t what they were and blah blah blah, but they are a good team with good players.
“My players deserve a lot of credit. We dominated three halves over the two games. We found it difficult to work Porto out but once we did it was a fantastic performance from the boys over the two games.
“Four points from six is the minimum we deserve, minimum, and it puts us in a good place in the group but there is still a lot of work to do with two tough games ahead.
“Yes, a win at Feyenoord is a fantastic carrot for us, but it’ll be really tough. They have a new manager and there will be a bounce from that and a massive improvement.
“But it’s not my main concern or focus. We will concern ourselves with Feyenoord when the time is right. We will be prepared for a tough away game and have a game plan. “We got there with confidence and belief but my focus right now is Livingston on Sunday, a different type of game.”
Rangers have only conceded one goal in six European ties at home all season, in the 3-1 win against FC Midtjylland, and Gerrard also hailed his side’s defensive efforts.
He added: “We’ve got a real good organisation about us at the moment and the players are buying into how we need to look out of possession.
“They are working so hard and doing the ugly side of the game, especially against top level opposition.”
