
# Rage Against the Machine’s Instagram now verified

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:13:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/rage-against-the-machines-instagram-now-verified/)

It’s been an eventful day for Rage Against the Machine fans, Coachella lineup watchers, and the music media. It all started when a mysterious, new, unverified @RageAgainstTheMachine Instagram account appeared with a single new post that listed tour dates, implying that the activist rap rock band was back, and that they were playing Coachella. A RATM fan account somehow knew about it and said it was real. The band stayed silent, but various sources started to independently confirm the news — with a music industry band manager that knows them, with a girlfriend (who happens to be Juliette Lewis) in a private message, and with anonymous sources. It’s been enough to believe it was happening, but it still felt like a rumor without an official announcement from either the band or Goldenvoice who puts on Coachella. Well, remember that unverified Instagram (which today went from zero to 126k followers as of this post)? We just noticed it is in fact now VERIFIED! Have a great weekend!
The RATM tour dates:El Paso, TX March 26, 2020Las Cruces, NM March 28, 2020Phoenix, AZ March 30, 2020Indio, CA April 10, 2020Indio, CA April 17, 2020
—
UPDATE: B-Real and Chuck D of RATM offshoot Prophets of Rage have issued statements on Prophets of Rage’s demise, following the news of the RATM reunion.
