
# LA Times accused of 'blaming' Mexican cartel massacre victims by noting family's 'long history of violence'

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:54:13+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Wulfsohn**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/media/los-angeles-times-mexico-cartel-massacre-victims)

The Los Angeles Times faced fierce backlash for its coverage of the nine Americans murdered by a Mexican drug cartel this week, after a report highlighted the family's "long history of violence."
At least six children and three women living in a faith-based community of U.S. citizens in Mexico were shot to death Monday in the northern part of the country, and six more children were wounded after their convoy came under fire during a brazen daylight ambush believed to have been carried out by gunmen affiliated with cartels.
All the victims are believed to be members of the extended LeBaron family, who have lived in a religious community in La Mora, northern Mexico, a decades-old settlement in Sonora state founded as part of an offshoot of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints around 70 miles south of Douglas, Ariz.

        
          TRUMP CALLS FOR 'WAR' AGAINST MEXICAN DRUG CARTEL 'MONSTERS' AFTER AMERICANS MURDERED IN SHOOTOUT
        
      
However, the California newspaper ran a report on Monday headlined, "U.S. victims in Mexico massacre were tied to family with a long history of violence," which detailed the community's tragic past with the cartels.
The report sparked a firestorm of criticism on social media.
"Is the idea here that the victims had it coming? This is an insane piece," conservative commentator Ben Shapiro reacted.
"This story is just terrible. A family is burying small children and now the media is dredging up completely unrelated events, committed by distant relatives, that happened more than a generation ago. Nice," The Dispatch senior editor David French wrote.
