
# Families losing loved ones abroad should not be failed by the Foreign Office

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Record View, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/record-view/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/families-losing-loved-ones-abroad-20791917)

Families across the country will have experienced the heartbreak of losing a loved one.
However, it is every family’s nightmare losing someone abroad and having to deal with overseas authorities.
When tragedy strikes, the UK’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office should do as much as they can to assist.
A parliamentary report reveals how badly let down families have felt at the inaction of the FCO.
An all-party group at Westminster spoke to 60 families, including from Scotland, whose loved ones had gone missing, been imprisoned or died abroad. Their testimony should shame the FCO.
 
SNP MSP Clare Haughey and her husband Paul lost their son Charlie while he was in Holland in July. Paul said the FCO had been “worse than useless”.
Julie Love’s son Colin drowned in Venezuela in 2009. She says she called the FCO and never got a call back.
The recommendations are excellent, including a call for experienced FCO staff to meet families face-to-face at the outset of a traumatic event overseas.
Expanding criminal injury compensation to families who are victims of deaths abroad is another no-brainer.
The UK Government should implement these demands as soon as possible.
Scotland’s record drugs death figures have been a wake-up call for our political establishment.
It is a scandal that more than 1000 people lost their lives in 2018 – a 27 per cent increase.
The Scottish Government acted positively by setting up a new taskforce.
However, if we are to produce a blueprint for the future, we must learn from the mistakes of the past.
Parts of the political and medical world have been complacent about drug deaths and dismissed new approaches.
Castle Craig Hospital in Peeblesshire adopts an abstinence-based approach and has taken in about 200 Dutch patients.
However, less than a handful of Scots have been funded to attend the centre.
Public health minister Joe FitzPatrick visited Castle Craig two months ago but nothing has happened since.
No single panacea exists but we cannot afford to turn our backs on solutions that work.
The Prince’s Trust is a great charity that helps 11 to 30-year-olds get into jobs, education and training.
We should always celebrate the achievements of young people who have overcome difficulties.
The examples we’ve selected are an inspiration and should be shared widely.
