
# Derrius Guice officially activated off injured reserve by Redskins

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Paras**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/7/redskins-officially-activate-derrius-guice-injured/)

The Washington Redskins announced Thursday they have activated running back Derrius Guice from injured reserve, paving the way for him to return next week against the New York Jets.
The 22-year-old has not played since Week 1 against the Philadelphia Eagles, when he tore his meniscus. The injury required a minor operation and put the running back on IR, requiring him to miss a minimum of eight weeks.
Guice won the starting running back job in training camp and the Redskins were prepared to have him be the “focal point” of their offense under coach Jay Gruden. But it is unclear how heavily the Redskins plan to use Guice now that Gruden is gone and veteran Adrian Peterson has reemerged as the team’s primary workhorse.
Interim coach Bill Callahan deflected a question last week when asked how he plans to divide reps between Peterson and Guice.
“That’s a question for two weeks from now,” Callahan said. “So, we’ll address that when the time is appropriate, when the game plan is put in and who we’re playing, how we’re going to attack that particular defense and how we’re going to divide the repetitions and rotations and things of that nature. Way too early to decide on reps and counts they’ll have for that particular game.”
 

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
