
# Michael Douglas Confirms Ant-Man 3 Role, When Filming Will Begin

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:32:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483736/michael-douglas-confirms-ant-man-3-role-when-filming-will-begin)

Written By

        CinemaBlend participates in affiliate programs with various companies. We may earn commission when you click on or make purchases via links.
      
The Marvel Cinematic Universe is preparing to begin Phase Four, as we're currently in the midst of the months-long hiatus between film slates. The studio revealed its plans through 2022 this summer, with exciting announcements at both San Diego Comic-Con and the D23 Expo. But there are still a variety of projects that don't have release dates, including Ant-Man 3. Luckily, Michael Douglas has recently gotten a bit chatty about the highly anticipated threequel.
Michael Douglas stars as Hank Pym in the Ant-Man movies, and recently had a brief cameo during Tony Stark's lakeside funeral in Avengers: Endgame. He seemed like an obvious cast member to return for the upcoming third movie, and the 75 year-old actor recently confirmed his appearance in the upcoming blockbuster, also revealing when production will start. As he put it:
Well, that seems pretty cut and dry. Despite the security and secrecy of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Michael Douglas just confirmed two exciting updates for Ant-Man 3. And while he was expected to reprise his role, news about when the movie is filming is especially major. And it's happening in just a little over a year. Although the movie's crew and contents remain a complete mystery.
Michael Douglas' comments to Collider are sure to excite the rabid Marvel fanbase. Spider-Man: Far From Home ended Phase Three, and moviegoers are eager for any information about the shared universe's future. This certainly includes Paul Rudd's Scott Lang and the Ant-Man franchise. Because while the property offers something light and unique for the MCU, Ant-Man was also intimately involved in the events of Avengers: Endgame.
While he was noticeably absent in Avengers: Infinity War, Ant-Man's story moved forward during Ant-Man and The Wasp. Hope became a superhero and Janet was rescued, but Thanos' snap dusted the supporting cast and left Scott stranded in the Quantum Realm. He was eventually rescued by a heroic rat, reunited with a much older Cassie, and came to the Avengers with the idea of the Time Heist.
I'm eager to see if the same actress plays Cassie in Ant-Man 3. Emma Fuhrmann replaced Abby Ryder Fortson as Cassie Lang in Endgame, following the five-year time jump. This jump could potentially open up the opportunity for her becoming a superhero as well, just like the comics. As Stature, she has the same growing and shrinking abilities as her father. And Ant-Man 3 seems like a great opportunity for that origin story. You can read up on Cassie's life on the page here.
Ant-Man 3 doesn't currently have a release date, but it's expected to hit theaters following the release of Phase Five's Black Panther II in 2022. The next installment in the MCU is Black Panther on May 1st, 2020. In the meantime, check out our 2019 release list to plan your next trip to the movies.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
