
# PlayStation 5 leak suggests Overwatch 2 will 'almost certainly' be first game

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:00:32+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/playstation-5-leak-suggests-overwatch-20822508)

With a launch date of ‘Holiday 2020’, there’s still a pretty long wait before Sony finally unveils its PlayStation 5 console.
But despite this timeline, rumours about the PS5 are already coming thick and fast, with the latest rumour giving us a hint at some of the games for the console.
The rumour, by Pushsquare , indicates that both Overwatch 2 and Diablo 4 will ‘almost certainly’ launch on the PS5.
Pushsquare points to a recent Diablo-dedicated panel at Blizzcon 2019, where the development team spoke on stage.
According to Pushsquare, the development team said: “We are not coming anytime soon, not even Blizzard soon.”
 
Meanwhile, speaking to VG247, game director Jeff Kaplan said that Overwatch 2 could launch at Blizzcon 2020.
He said: “I have a feeling we’ll be talking about Overwatch 2 again next year at BlizzCon. If that helps.”
While this doesn’t necessarily show that the games will launch for PS5, it does seem like more than a coincidence that the two games are launching in late 2020, shortly before the launch of the PS5.
 
The rumour comes shortly after Sony finally confirmed the name and launch date for its next generation console.
As expected, the console is called the PlayStation 5 , and will launch in time for ‘Holiday 2020.’
In a blog about the news, Jim Ryan , President and CEO of SIE, said: “Since we originally unveiled our next-generation console in April, we know that there’s been a lot of excitement and interest in hearing more about what the future of games will bring.
“Today I’m proud to share that our next-generation console will be called PlayStation 5, and we’ll be launching in time for Holiday 2020.”
A precise launch date remains unclear.
