
# Demi Moore on her relationship with former husband Ashton Kutcher: ‘It took me away emotionally’

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:37:12+00:00**

Author: **Robyn Lucas**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/demi-moore-on-her-relationship-with-former-husband-ashton-kutcher-it-took-me-away-emotionally-20191106)

Cape Town - Demi Moore has opened up about her marriage to Ashton Kutcher.
The Rough Night actress and her daughters Tallulah and Rumer Willis spoke to Jada Pinkett Smith on her Facebook show, Red Table Talk, Daily Mail reports.
During the episode, the 56-year-old opened up about her eight-year marriage to ex-husband Ashton Kutcher, who’s 15 years her junior.
"The addiction and the codependency . . . like my addiction to Ashton – that was probably almost more devastating because it took me seriously away emotionally," Demi said.
Her 25-year-old daughter, Tallulah, went on to reveal the impact her mom's drug and alcohol addiction had on her, People reports.
"Watching the behaviour with Ashton, those years, because everyone had left the house and it was just me living there, I felt very forgotten and I feel like I developed and nurtured a narrative where she didn’t love me and I truly believed it," Tallulah said.
"I know that she does, 100 percent, but in that moment you’re hurt."
Demi also went on to explain how she relapsed while on a trip with Ashton in 2014.
"Ashton said, ‘I don’t know if alcoholism’s a thing. I think it’s about moderation’," Demi said.
"If I’d stayed close to working my programme . . . I, of course, lived the majority of my adult life sober. I was great sober."
Actress and singer Rumer (31) revealed that she didn’t like her mom and Ashton’s relationship, Fox News reports.
"So much of that time, especially with Ashton, I was so angry because I felt like something that was mine had been taken away," Rumer said.
"I think also when she wanted to have another baby and then it wasn’t happening, and there was so much focus on that, it was like ‘Oh, well, we’re not enough’."
Demi and Ashton tied the knot in 2005 but decided to call it quits in 2011 and were officially divorced in 2013.

        WATCH THE EPISODE HERE:
      
