
# Crypto Market And Bitcoin Eyeing Gains: BNB, BCH, LTC, EOS Analysis

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:00:39+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/05/crypto-market-and-bitcoin-eyeing-gains-bnb-bch-ltc-eos-analysis/)


        Bitcoin (BTC) and the crypto market cap are slowly moving higher. Many altcoins such as Ethereum (ETH), binance coin (BNB), ripple, litecoin, BCH, EOS, TRX, and ADA could climb higher.
      
Recently, we saw a downside correction in BCH price below the $290 level against the US Dollar. However, BCH price remained well bid above the $280 and $285 support levels. As a result, the price is now moving higher and it is rising steadily towards the $300 resistance level.
If there is a successful break above the $300 and $305 resistance levels, the price could continue to rise towards the $325 and $330 levels. On the downside, the main support is near the $285 and $280 levels.
Binance coin (BNB) price is trading with a flat bias above the key $20.00 support area. BNB price could start a fresh increase if it manages to climb above the $21.00 and $21.20 resistance levels. The next key resistances on the upside are near the $22.00 and $22.40 levels.
Litecoin price is gaining traction and it recently climbed more than 5% to surpass the $60.00 resistance area. LTC price even broke the $62.00 resistance area, opening the doors for more gains towards the $65.00 and $66.00 resistance levels in the coming sessions.
EOS price found a strong support near the $3.200 area and it recently started a decent upward move. The price is up more than 5% and it broke the $3.350 and $3.400 resistance levels. The next major hurdle for further gains is near the $3.500 level, above which the price could test $3.800.
Looking at the total cryptocurrency market cap hourly chart, there was a downside correction from well above the $250.0B level. However, the $230.0B zone acted as a strong support. As a result, the market cap started a fresh increase and surpassed the $235.0B level. It seems like there could be more upsides above $250.0B in the near term. Overall, there could a steady rise in bitcoin, Ethereum, EOS, litecoin, ripple, ADA, BCH, XLM, BNB, TRX, XMR, and other altcoins.
