
# Plymouth has a new top rated restaurant on Trip Advisor

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:07:51+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink/plymouth-new-top-rated-restaurant-3500963)

Plymouth has a new top restaurant according to Trip Advisor - and it's only been there for a year.
Fletcher's was opened in November 2018 by then 23-year-old Fletcher Andrews who works as the head chef.
Together the young team, including Fletcher's co-shareholders - his sister Tolon Andrews, her boyfriend George Roberts and Fletcher's partner Jess - have earned a perfect 5* rating on the review site TripAdvisor, making the fine diner the highest reviewed restaurant in the city.
It is now currently ranked in first place out of 470 establishments on TripAdvisor.
The team at Fletcher's have received heaps of good reviews so far, with many customers more than impressed with the service they received and the quality of food.
One reviewer wrote: "Fabulous food, excellent service and lovely ambience. You don't just need to keep Fletchers for 'special occasions' - it really is fine dining at reasonable prices and in an informal atmosphere. Truly the best Plymouth has to offer by far."
Another reviewer said: "We were welcomed and settled at our table and had excellent food and drink the like if which is rare! Terrific service - nothing too much trouble and all done with a bright smile! We are from the set menu and enjoyed great value for money.
"I am already dreaming of our next visit!!"
While a third added: "We had a family celebration and booked at Fletchers after visiting before. My family are a bit harder work with the odd vegan and celiac and soy allergies so we are on our guard when eating out. We communicated this at the booking and on the night as is our responsibility.
Every thing came out clearly explained what ingredients we could share and have a taste of as it all looked so unbelievably delicious we anted to try it all.
Jess and Tolon waited on our table and were super friendly and knowledgeable. Several dishes were adapted for our needs like the trifle which was divine, The lamb and the braised beef are out of this world, packed full of flavour.
We had a mix of starters as well which left us all very very full as we did not leave a crumb on our plates! The atmosphere, the location, this place has it all."
The eatery, in Princess Street,  was formerly home to Chloe's French-themed diner before Fletcher took over the lease and turned the restaurant around in a matter of days.
Speaking to Plymouth Live in 2018, Fletcher said: “We did it all in two days. Painted, decorated, new signage, new lighting, a new arch. We had a lot of help from family and friends. Twisted Metal Art made our arch, Alderman Tooling made the signs.”
The restaurant offers an a la carte and pre-theatre set menu and lunch menu, which makes the place attractive to theatre goers who can enjoy food before the show and drinks after the curtain comes down.
“It’ll be somewhere to get a nightcap without having to go to a club,” said Fletcher.
“We’ll take last food orders at 9pm and come 11pm will switch to being a cocktail bar.
“We have a licence until 1am but will get an extension to 2am Friday and Saturday.”
Fletchers is open Tuesday - Saturday 12pm - 2pm and from 5pm - 9pm for food, with an extended license until the early hours for drinks.
