
# Singaporean accused of beating, burning Pom surrenders to Thai authorities

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:52:38+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/news/singaporean-accused-of-beating-burning-pom-dog-surrenders-to-thai-authorities-spca/)

A Singaporean accused of hitting his dog with a helmet and setting its fur on fire in a video has surrendered to Thai authorities following complaints of animal cruelty.
Samuel Woo Zhi Heng yesterday posted a photo of him at a Thai police station and a video of him playing with said dog, who was thankfully still alive. The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, or SPCA, in Singapore confirmed today that he had turned himself in and was assisting Thai police with their investigation. 
“I will learn from my mistake and never do it again,” Woo wrote in his post.
The SPCA said Woo had reached out to them and offered to “fully cooperate” with authorities and “take responsibility for his actions,” the group said in a statement.
A separate video of him apologizing alongside his purported ex-girlfriend was also posted to his Facebook account yesterday. He admitted that he was “not suitable” for taking care of dogs and vowed not to buy or hurt anymore animals. 
“I will surrender myself and face all the punishment from the police. Hope u guys can forgive me,” he wrote with his apology video. 
Video of the abuse (warning: disturbing), posted online by Woo himself, appears to show him striking the dog with a helmet as it whimpers and cowers. He next walks out to what looks like a living room to retrieve a lighter, which he uses to set fire to the fluffy white dog’s fur repeatedly.
“Don’t make I angry when I no money, my dog also I no give chance (sic),” he wrote in the post.
