
# MTV EMAs 2019: The best-dressed celebrities on the red carpet, including Dua Lipa and Halsey

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:00:18+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Young**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/fashion/mtv-awards-2019-europe-best-dressed-dua-lipa-halsey-a9183781.html)

The FIBES Conference and Exhibition Centre in Seville, Spain, rolled out the red carpet on Sunday night as celebrities arrived for the 2019 MTV European Music Awards (EMAs).
The event, which was hosted by American singer Becky G, saw stars come together to celebrate the music industry’s most acclaimed talents.
Among the guests in attendance at this year’s ceremony were singers Dua Lipa, Halsey, Niall Horan and supermodel Joan Smalls.
With a more casual dress code than other awards ceremonies, the EMAs inspires guests to ditch tradition and get creative with their red carpet looks, with Singaporean singer Jasmine Sokko and Ukrainian singer Maruv opting for Halloween-inspired ensembles. 
Elsewhere, former Pussycat Doll's member Nicole Scherzinger was among the stand-out guests on the red carpet in a crimson-coloured sequin mini dress and black stiletto heels.
Spanish singer Lola Indigo went full princess in a pale pink tiered gown made from layers of tulle, while Becky G opted for a red version from the new Giambattista Valli x H&M collaboration.  
Among the winners on the night were Shawn Mendes who picked up the prize for Best Artist and “Bad Guy” singer Billie Eilish, who took home the award for Best Song and Best New Artist.
Meanwhile, Taylor Swift was celebrated in the music video category for her song “ME!” with the award for Best Video, as well as taking home the award for Best US Act.
Click through the gallery above to see the best-dressed celebrities at the MTV EMAs 2019.
