
# Marcelo: What Ronaldo Told Us Ahead Of 2016/17 UCL Final

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:27:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/marcelo-what-cristiano-ronaldo-told-us-ahead-of-2016-17-uefa-champions-league-final/666490)

Real Madrid star Marcelo has reportedly lifted the lid on what Cristiano Ronaldo told him and their Los Blancos teammates ahead of the 2016/17 UEFA Champions League final against Juventus.

        
          Read: 10 Players Once Dubbed The 'Next Ronaldo'
        
      
The Portugal international played a starring role for Real in their 4-1 win over the Bianconeri, scoring twice to earn his side the title and himself the Man of the Match award.
Ronaldo would later leave the record 13-time champions to join the Juve, but former teammate Marcelo has now revealed what the forward told him and other Real stars ahead of the 2016/17 final.
"… The boys are sitting around the table at the pre-match lunch – me, Casemiro, Danilo and Cristiano. Total silence," Marcelo wrote in The Players' Tribune.
"Nobody saying anything. Everybody just staring at their food. You can hear people's stomachs making funny noises, you know? But nobody is saying anything. It's really tense.
"Finally, Cristiano says, 'Question, guys'. We say, 'Yes, brother?'. Cristiano says, 'Is it just me who is feeling this pressure in the stomach?' And everybody replies at the same time, 'Me too, brother! Me too!'
"Nobody wanted to admit it! But if this guy is feeling it, then we're all OK to admit it, you know? Cristiano is ice-cold. A machine. And even he is s****ing himself!
"It broke all the tension. Only he could have done that. We shouted to the waiter, 'Brother, please bring us some sparkling water! We need some help to get this food down!'
"After that, it was all laughter."

        
          Choose the DM for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
Marcelo also revealed that, despite the nerves, Ronaldo was confident Real would come away with the win and even predicted how the match would unfold.
"As we got up to leave for the stadium, Cristiano told us exactly how the match was going to be. He said, 'In the beginning, it will be difficult. But in the second half, we will win peacefully," the 31-year-old revealed.
"I will never forget this. He predicted it. Then he said, 'Gonna take it down, man. Gonna take it down.' We took it down, man. I have this image of his face in my mind. It is permanently recorded.
"It is so beautiful. These are the stories that I will tell my grandkids.
"And, honestly, in 30 years, when I tell them that I played on the same grass as Cristiano, as Messi, they will probably say, 'Grandpa, you're telling us they scored 50 goals in a season? You are lying. You are senile. We need to get grandpa to the doctor!'"

        
          Read: Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
Ronaldo spent nine seasons with Los Blancos, during which he scored 450 goals in 438 appearances and won no fewer than 15 major honours.
