
# Strictly's Mike Bushell viciously trolled as he is saved by the judges for third time

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:36:06+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictlys-mike-bushell-viciously-trolled-20804067)

Mike Bushell was trolled tonight after being saved by the Strictly judges in his third dance-off with pro partner Katya Jones.
The BBC presenter, 53, has previously admitted that he has been bombarded with abuse from trolls and got a sickening death threat after being chosen by the judges to stay in the dancing competition.
Mike and Katya were up against Emma Weymouth and Aljaz Skorjanec in the dance-off and, despite making a blunder in the middle of their dance, were saved by all judges
Enraged Strictly viewers instantly took to Twitter after tonight's show to slam the result and swipe at the celebrity contestant.
One tweeted: "@mikebreakfast I'm sure you are a lovely guy but you must be embarrassed at the blatant bias the judges are showing towards you?"
While another commented: "FIX FIX FIX they were much better than @mikebreakfast @Mrs_katjones."
Another shared: "BBC bias fix."
A third quipped: "Even John Sargeant knew it was time to be realistic and quit the show. @mikebreakfast being saved, whilst Dev, Catherine and Emma W is gone...not really funny anymore. Nothing personal. But it ruins the show. #Strictly."
Other fans rushed to Mike's defence following the harsh backlash after he survived the dance-off.
One wrote: "Really hope Mike doesn't get any more horrible threats. He deserved to stay, and also people need to chill the F out."
Another posted: " Sending Mike death threats is disgusting as is calling him vile names."
Mike's second performance of the Charleston to Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines by Ron Goodwin Orchestra was favoured by the judges who all chose to save the presenter and see him dance again next week.
Emma and Aljaž became the sixth couple to be booted off the hit BBC dance competition.
The socialite, 33, appeared totally devastated to be leaving Strictly Come Dancing and confessed she felt 'heartbroken' as she teared up while thanking her professional dancing partner Aljaž after the devastating announcement
Mike has continually been targeted by trolls having survived three dance-offs in a row.
He has even received death threats - with pro partner Katya Jones now shunning Twitter and Instagram .
Speaking at the Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards last week, Mike described one particular threat: "It said that unless I withdraw from the competition now I'm a dead man.
"It was personal and I thought WTF. There are bigger things in the world to worry about.
"I get that people have their own favourite dancers but it's an entertainment show at the end of the day and to get a death threat is ridiculous."
Mike also previously slammed speculation that the judges' decisions have been a 'fix'.
During an appearance on BBC Breakfast last week, Mike responded to the trolling as he jumped back into rehearsals.
He said: "It's an entertainment show, we're all trying our best, you're not really competing against anybody else, you compete against yourself to try and learn to get better and better each week, even if its just learning a couple of new steps.
"You have to rise above the abuse on social media, that's one of the sad things about social media.
"All you can do is do your best, accept the judges' decision and move on."
Mike is not the only Strictly star to have been trolled this series, as head judge Shirley Ballas received similar messages after the controversial decisions to boot Dev Griffin and Catherine Tyldesley off the show.
Viewers even called for Shirley to be sacked over the controversial decision.

        *Strictly Come Dancing continues next Saturday on BBC One at 7:20pm.
      
