
# Microsoft Outlook to get several new features to simplify meetings experience

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Pradeep**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/microsoft-outlook-to-get-several-new-features-to-simplify-meetings-experience/)

In any organization, meetings play a huge role in overall productivity. Managing meetings is a huge task for any employee in a large organization. Microsoft Outlook yesterday announced several new features in Outlook that will help anyone to stay on top of their calendar everyday.

        Up Next:
      
Up Next is a new feature in Outlook for iOS and Android that will help you to quickly find when and where you need to be next. You don’t need to go to your Outlook Calendar to check your next meeting info, instead Outlook will show you the next meeting you’ve committed to attend on top on your inbox. You can also dismiss it if you want to. For example, check out the image on top of this article.

        Meeting Insights:
      
When you open a meeting event from your calendar, using the power of AI, Meeting Insights will present you the files and emails that are relevant to the meeting.

        Work and personal calendar:
      
In order to allow you to manage both your work and personal meetings in one location, Outlook on the web will now allow you to connect your Outlook.com or Google calendar with your work account. Once added, you will see your personal events and work events in one view. If you are part of a team or sports organization, you can add school schedules and even sync your TeamSnap account.

        My Day on Outlook Web:
      
My Day feature offers you a sneak peak at your calendar and tasks without leaving the Outlook web inbox. One tab in My Day shows your meetings and events, allowing you to create a meeting,  respond to a meeting invite, or even join a meeting. The second To Do tab presents your tasks and lists from Microsoft To Do. You can even drag an email to the To Do tab to create a new task.

        RSVP directly in email list:
      
When you receive a meeting request, generally you go to your calendar, check for your availability and respond to the event. With this new feature to RSVP directly in your email list, you can make your decision directly with all the information you need.
Source: Outlook
