
# East Kilbride wage scandal firm must pay me or my business could go under

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Fraser N Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-n-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/east-kilbride-wage-scandal-firm-20818108)

The owner of a small bus firm says his business could go under because of money owed by wage scandal call centre AGO Outsourcing.
John Toner has been left to pay bills and tax from his personal savings account to keep his company going as he waits for the East Kilbride firm to pay him over £3500.
The sole trader used his two buses to cart call centre staff from George Square in Glasgow to East Kilbride.
He even managed to get staff to and from their work on time, and safely, during the heavy snow showers that blasted Scotland earlier this year.
But John says he has been left chasing an invoice for £3000 +VAT since July.
Speaking to the News, John – of Toner Travel – said “it’s a disgrace how AGO Outsourcing are going about their business”. He told us: “I ran the staff bus when no one else would do it for them.
“I would pick the new starts up for training from Glasgow and take them to the call centre in the morning, then back again at night.
“We were even out there in the heavy-snow getting them to
their work when no other buses were running.
“It worked out about £100 a day I was charging for a 16-seater. I invoiced them mid-July when the contract finished and now I’m being told they can’t pay me.”
We told you last week how a number of former and existing staff at AGO had lodged complaints that they had repeatedly not been paid correctly.
Almost 20 current and former staff members have now contacted the News regarding a number of issues and complaints about AGO.
The majority of those complaints surround payment, with many staff claiming they are still owed thousands of pounds by the firm, whose biggest contract is Scottish Power.
AGO chief executive Kris McGenily told us the blame for the problems lay with Lakemere who were the “legal entity” supposed to pay staff.
But this is the first John had heard about a second company or the fact that that is why he wasn’t being paid.
John said: “I was working for AGO, not Lakemere.
“I had never heard anything about this Lakemere until they decided they couldn’t pay me. It was AGO I was asked to invoice.
“Last I heard from them, they promised they would pay me by September 17. Surprise, surprise that has come and gone.
“Now they won’t even take my calls or speak to me about the money they owe me. It’s disgraceful what they’re getting away with.
“If they’re still trading, which they are, then they can pay me.”
Toner Travel has just two buses and two drivers, and outstanding invoices to this extent could prove very costly for the firm.
Having chased the matter repeatedly, John said finance controller Kelly Smith stopped taking calls from him.
Mr McGenily would not be drawn further on the matter when contacted by the News.
 
