
# Advocates fear new opioid panel will minimize harm reduction focus

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:33:41+00:00**

Author: **Alanna Smith**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/overdose-numbers-reach-all-time-low-at-calgarys-supervised-consumption-site)

The province is set to introduce a new advisory panel on deadly opioids that will sharpen the focus on battling mental health and addiction over harm reduction strategies championed by the outgoing commission struck by Alberta’s former NDP government.
A 23-member expert advisory council will be unveiled in Calgary Monday to replace the Minister’s Opioid Emergency Response Commission, whose mandate will expire at the end of the month. According to the province, six members of the outgoing panel will be part of the new group, which will have a “broad mandate to give advice and mental health and addictions overall.”
Steve Buick, press secretary to Jason Luan, Alberta’s associate minister of mental health and addictions, said while harm reduction will remain part of the plan, the new panel will extend its mandate to examine the opioid crisis “within a broader system context.”
“The new advisory council will help the Minister develop a mental health and addictions strategy that is fair, firm, and compassionate, including continuing support for harm reduction as part of a recovery-focused system of care for people with addictions to opioids and other substances,” he said.
“The NDP focused narrowly on opioids and on harm reduction. Minister Luan is committed to taking on the broader challenge — to improve access to effective services across the full spectrum of mental health and addictions issues.”
The change in focus comes just as new numbers released by Calgary’s controversial Sheldon Chumir supervised consumption site show overdose rates at the facility have hit an all-time low, while visits are also stabilizing.
The most recent statistics from Alberta Health Services show there were 26 overdoses in September, representing 0.60 per cent of overdoses per number of times drugs consumed.
It is the lowest rate ever recorded since the facility opened two years ago, and continues the declining trend at the Chumir with a ratio and rate of overdoses at 0.79 per cent in August and 0.98 in July.
Dr. Nick Etches with AHS said the numbers are promising and prove their efforts to provide overdose prevention education has been successful.
“We certainly value the work that we do and the clients that we serve,” said Etches. “We’ve responded, now, to over 1,200 overdoses at the supervised consumption service and we have had no deaths. That’s an incredibly important statistic.”
Petra Schulz, who served on the outgoing panel, said the panel’s recommendations at boosting harm prevention strategies saved countless lives in the province, and worries the conversation will switch to morally-based decision-making, rather than evidence-based decision-making.
“It’s not about being on the commission; it’s about the continuation of that important work, especially harm-reduction measures,” said Edmonton’s Schulz, who lost her youngest son to fentanyl in 2014 and is a founding director of Moms Stop the Harm.
“Everybody wants recovery for their child. I was dreaming about recovery for my child . . . but there wasn’t harm reduction in place to keep him safe while he was still using.
“It has to be both. It’s not an either/or. Harm reduction and recovery go together.”
Jessica Holtsbaum, co-founder of the non-profit agency Change the Face of Addiction, said the most recent overdose statistics at the Calgary facility are encouraging and show the value of harm-reduction strategies.
“The emphasis needs to be on growing the services around Sheldon Chumir,” said Holtsbaum. “(It) gives people a chance to live another day. It will give people access to other supports, like detox and abstinence-based programs. It gives people hope and a place to be themselves. There’s just so many overlapping reasons why we need this service, but it was never meant to be stand alone.”
Holtsbaum said the government must balance harm reduction and recovery services, instead of “polarizing” the supports.
“Everyone is so unique and everyone needs access to different avenues of care,” she said.
The provincial government is currently reviewing supervised consumption sites, however the United Conservative Party government said there will be no changes to existing facilities, either funding or services, while the review is underway. The study is expected to wrap up in 2020, when cabinet will review any recommendations and make decisions about the future of the sites.
In September, the Government of Alberta announced it would be funding 4,000 addiction treatment spaces as part of its $140-million commitment to addiction, mental health and the opioid crisis.
According to Buick, even though the overdose rates are going in a positive direction, it doesn’t necessarily mean harm reduction should remain the sole focus of dealing with the opioid crisis.
“We support harm reduction as part of a continuum of care, and we acknowledge the evidence that SCSs provide valuable services to addicts,” he said.
“The trend in overdoses and deaths is driven by many factors. SCSs may play a role but we do not know how much any one factor contributes as many different changes are occurring, including a sharp reduction in opioid prescribing and a rapid increase in availability of methadone and other treatments.”
Statistics from the province show 305 fatal overdoses in the first half of 2019, averaging about two per day. Since 2016, 2,358 people have died in Alberta from opioid poisoning.

        alsmith@postmedia.com
      
Twitter: @alanna_smithh
