
# CM Gautam, Abrar Kazi arrested on grounds of fixing in KPL

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:12:49+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/cm-gautam-abrar-kazi-arrested-on-grounds-of-fixing-in-kpl?utm_medium=rss)


        Following several names surfacing with regards to corruption in the Karnataka Premier League, a couple of big names- CM Gautam and Abrar Kazi- have come up and they have been arrested on grounds of spot-fixing. The two players have represented the Karnataka cricket team in Ranji Trophy.
      
Bellary Tuskers players CM Gautam and Abrar Kazi have been arrested by the  Central Crime Branch of Bangalore(CCB) on charges of spot fixing in the final of the infamous T20 league that was held earlier this year. Earlier, on Wednesday, the CCB had arrested another player, Nishant Shekhawat, for allegedly acting as an emissary between bookies and players. As of Thursday, four players have been arrested and more are expected by the crime branch, according to the Sandeep Patil, the Joint Commissioner of Police.
"CCB have made two important arrests in the KPL spot-fixing scandal," Patil told ESPNcricinfo. 
"Bellary team captain CM Gautum and Abrar Kazi arrested. They did spot fixing in KPL 2019 finals between Hubli and Bellary. They were paid 20 lakhs for slow batting. Also, they fixed another match against the Bangalore team. Further investigation on and more arrests would be done," he revealed.
Gautam, captain of Bellary Tuskers, allegedly accepted INR 20 lakh for "slow batting" in the KPL 2019 final, which was won by the Hubli Tigers by a margin of eight runs. While the wicketkeeper captain, Gautam had scored a 37-ball 29, Kazi was dismissed for a run out while batting on 13 off 6.
Not just the final match, Gautam and Kazi were also allegedly involved in fixing another KPL game, that the Tuskers played against the Bengaluru Blasters.
