
# The Eternals Cast Reportedly Evacuated After Bomb Was Found On Set

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:17:26+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483813/the-eternals-cast-reportedly-evacuated-after-bomb-was-found-on-set)

Written By
The Marvel Cinematic Universe is in an interesting place right now, as we're currently in the interim months between phases. Phase Four will kick off with Black Widow, but there are plenty of exciting projects coming down the pipeline. Chief among them is Chloé Zhao's The Eternals, which features the most diverse cast of any Marvel movie thus far. The highly anticipated blockbuster is in the midst of filming, but the set was reportedly evacuated under dire circumstances-- specifically related to a bomb.
The Eternals is currently filming in the Canary Island of Fuerteventura, where the cast was reportedly asked to leave set due to an emergency situation. Production was halted after an unexploded bomb was allegedly found close to the shooting location. The cast members who were reported to be on set during this time included Angelina Jolie and Game of Thrones' Richard Madden.
This news comes to us from The Sun, and is a terrifying one. It is important to note that there hasn't been any confirmation or word from Marvel Studios, or the various named attached to the upcoming superhero movie. Still, the alleged story is a chilling one, which CinemaBlend will be following as more information comes out.
According to this early report, it's possible that the explosive might not be modern, or placed there with the intent of causing harm to production. There was reportedly an abandoned Nazi base on that island, which could explain the bomb. Regardless, it's no doubt a sobering moment for everyone involved in production on The Eternals.
Rather than exclusively filming in Pinewood Studios is England, it looks like Chloé Zhao's MCU debut will also be traveling to remote locations in order to fully create the world of The Eternals. That includes the Canary Islands, which are located off the coast of Spain. While this might help create a visual language for the blockbuster, the location has seemingly been the cause for some panic and stress.
The Eternals is a highly anticipated addition to the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and will be the second film presented in Phase Four following Black Widow. As such, it'll be the first movie to introduce new characters, and there's a large ensemble cast to meet once it hits theaters in a year. The cast is the most inclusive one in the entire MCU, although some of this cast was no doubt involved in the reported evacuation.

        Related: Angelina Jolie's Thena: What We Know About Marvel's Eternals Character From The Comics
      
Chloé Zhao's upcoming blockbuster will focus on a group of immortal beings, in a story that will span thousands of years. The Eternals were created by The Celestials, to protect humanity from the villainous Deviants. The characters had their origins in the comics, although plenty of changes are being made to those characters in the upcoming film adaptation. The cast includes Angelina Jolie, Richard Madden, Kumail Nanjiani, The Walking Dead's Lauren Ridloff, Brian Tyree Henry, Salma Hayek, and Kit Harrington.
The Eternals is expected to hit theaters on November 6th, 2020. CinemaBlend will be sure to update you on the reported evacuation as more details become public. In the meantime, check out our 2019 release list to plan your next trip to the movies.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
