
# GMRC in Kinder to Grade 3 gets House body’s nod

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:57:33+00:00**

Author: **Jester P. Manalastas**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/gmrc-kinder-grade-3-gets-house-bodys-nod)

The Committee on Basic Education and Culture chaired by Pasig City Rep. Roman Romulo underscored the need to pass the GMRC Act of 2019.
Among the authors are Speaker Alan Peter Cayetano, Antipolo City Rep. Resureccion Acop, Leyte Rep. Lucy Torres-Gomez and Bulacan Reps. Jose Antonio Sy-Alvarado and Rep. Lorna Silverio.
The measure provides for the inclusion of the GMRC subject, taking into account the Edukasyon sa Pagpapakatao Curriculum of the Department of Education’s (DepEd) K-12 program.
The bill defines GMRC as basic social values and etiquette. It pursues  the State policy to develop the character of the youth by making them recognize their intrinsic human value, enabling them to cultivate their ability to make excellent choices for themselves in relation to the greater community, thereby creating a culture of respect and love for oneself, for others, and the country.
Cayetano said that in light of the changing times and the wide  Internet use where the youth is exposed to all sorts of information and disinformation, there is a pressing need to strengthen the common core values and inculcate universally acceptable moral standards.
“In the advent of social media and how it has evolved to be indispensable in our daily lives, it is important that etiquette and moral uprightness is also introduced and taught for all of us to keep up with the modern era and act accordingly to a customary set of beha-vior,” the Speaker said.
