
# Twitter reacts as Rishabh Pant’s indecision costs well-set Shikhar Dhawan his wicket

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:37:18+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/twitter-reacts-as-rishabh-pants-indecision-costs-well-set-shikhar-dhawan-his-wicket?utm_medium=rss)


        While the flavour of T20 cricket is based on sixes and fours, singles and doubles continue to play an integral part and their importance can never be discarded. After ‘almost’ running out Dhawan due to his absent-mindedness, Rishabh Pant’s indecisiveness eventually cost the former his wicket.
      
Walking into bat at 70-3 in front of a jam-packed home crowd, the pressure was well and truly on under-fire Rishabh Pant to deliver, especially with Sanju Samson lurking on the sidelines. The southpaw started off his innings cautiously, curtailing himself from playing the big shots, but just three balls into his innings, a lapse in concentration which saw him not watch the ball almost ran Shikhar Dhawan out, kind of infuriating his senior partner.
Whilst he continued to tread cautiously, Dhawan, on the other end, finally broke the shackles with a four and a six and looked like he was all set to register a big score. However, on the fifth ball of the 15th over, an indecision from Pant - initially calling Dhawan for the second run and then sending him back after he was half-way down the track - ended up costing Dhawan his wicket.
This was a disaster for India as not only did the dismissal break the flow of runs but in the process, they also ended up losing the well-set batsman. The incident infuriated a lot of Twitteratis who bashed Pant for his lack of game awareness. Spare a thought for poor Rishabh!Here is how Twitter reacted to the incident:

        Ruined Dhawan's half-century!
      
