
# You could inherit an unclaimed Scottish estate worth up to £370k with right surname

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:58:24+00:00**

Author: **Hilary Mitchell**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/you-could-inherit-unclaimed-scottish-20801628)

Here's something to brighten up your day - if you have one of these surnames, you might be in line to inherit an absolute fortune.
Around the country there are an incredible 435 estates - some worth as much as £370k - without a home after previous owners failed to make a will before they passed away.
And now the full list of unclaimed estates has been published, according to Edinburgh Live .
These estates can include cash, land, assets, mansions and castles , which are up for grabs to anyone who can prove they are entitled to them.
Think you might be in with a chance of living your Monarch of the Glen fantasies? It could all start by simply noticing you have the same last name as the estate's previous owner.
 
When a person dies in Scotland without leaving a will detailing their desired benefactors, any unclaimed assets automatically fall under the care of the Crown, and are then placed in the care of The Office of Queen’s and Lord Treasurer’s Remembrancer.
In March 2016, the Succession Act passed by the Scottish Parliament made the process of claiming unwanted estates easier, removing the requirement to obtain a 'bond of caution' - a type of insurance provided only by a small number of firms in the UK, as reported in The Mirror.
When a person dies with no will, everything they owned can theoretically be claimed.
Some of the more unusual surnames on the list include Carlin, Hunniball, Malone-Philban and Raube.
If you think that you might be the rightful heir to one of the estates listed you can find out how to make a claim for that estate here .
You can download the list here .
