
# Jehovah’s Witness holds international meet in PHL

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:06:46+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/03/jehovahs-witness-holds-intl-meet-in-phl/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
It is the message of love as interpreted in 67 countries.
This was how Jehovah’s Witness Assistant Local Media Spokesman Melchor R. Basalo described their three-day 2019 International Convention in Pasay City.
The main thrust of the convention is Bible education and the theme this year is “Love never fails.”
“This is very relevant because we know that hate is now widespread as seen through racism, war and conflict within the family,” Basalo said.
“There is a lack of love. So the theme is very timely. If we love one another, many problems will be solved,” he added.
Over 5,500 delegates from 67 countries are attending the event, which ends on November 3.
They are joined by the 26,000 local members of Jehovah’s Witness.
Jehovah’s Witness Spokesman Dean Jacek said this was the first time so many delegates from numerous countries are attending their international convention in the Philippines.
“In all the conventions held in the country, this has the most number of international delegates…. It is unusual that so many people from other countries converge in single meeting,” Jacek said.
He said they hoped to connect and transcend the differences in race, culture and language through the words of the Bible, particularly on love.
“All the delegates come here to learn to realize love. So even if they have different perspective they will still have something in common,” Jacek said.
There is no better proof of this than Jacek himself, a Caucasian, but is fluent in Filipino after spending years in the country as a missionary of Jehovah’s Witness.
Besides fostering deeper understanding among Jehovah’s Witness members, Jacek said the event is also expected to provide economic benefit to the country.
“It is expected about half a billion pesos worth of income are expected to be generated by our 5,500 international delegates,” Jacek said.
“It is a win-win solution,” he added. The international delegates were toured to local attractions in Metro Manila, Tagaytay, Laguna and Batangas.
Jehovah’s Witnesses  is a Christian denomination with 8.5 million members nationwide.
