
# Richard Gere, 70, 'expecting second child' with wife Alejandra, 36, nine months after son

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:34:40+00:00**

Author: **Vicki Newman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/vicki-newman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/richard-gere-expecting-second-child-20813683)

Richard Gere is reportedly set to become a father again at 70.
The Pretty Woman star is said to be expecting his second child with his wife Alejandra Silva, 36.
Magazine Hola! , in Alejandra's native Spain, reports that the couple are due to welcome another baby just nine months after the birth of their son Alexander.
The publication reports she's three months down the line, having welcomed her and her husband's firstborn in February.
They both have children from previous marriages, with Alejandra sharing six-year-old Albert with ex-husband Govind Friedland, and Richard already dad to Homer James Jigem, 19, who he shares with ex-wife Carey Lowell.
Richard and Alejandra are yet to share their pregnancy news publicly, but last time they announced they had a baby on the way it was pretty special.
Alejandra shared a snap of the Dalai Lama blessing her bump, writing: "Getting blessings for our precious to come… We couldn't announce it before telling HH Dalai Lama."
Richard married Alejandra in April, last year, in a civil partner ceremony in Spain before celebrating with friends and loved ones back at the actor's ranch just outside New York City.
The happy couple shared their wedding pictures with Hello! magazine.
Alejandra said at the time: "I feel like I'm in a true fairytale. Without a doubt, I feel like the luckiest woman in the world."
Richard, who won Alejandra over by repeatedly sending her flowers until she agreed to go on a date, added: "I'm the happiest man in the universe.
"How could I not be? I'm married to a beautiful woman who is smart, sensitive, committed to helping people, who's fun, patient, who knows how to forgive, who's a great cook – and who makes the best salads in the world!"
Mirror Online has contacted Richard's representatives for comment.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
