
# Inside lavish celebrations Ferne McCann threw for baby Sunday's second birthday

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:17:57+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/inside-lavish-celebrations-ferne-mccann-20803462)

Ferne McCann's baby daughter Sunday has just turned two, and the former TOWIE star made sure she celebrated her special day in style.
The mum-of-one, 29, has flooded her Instagram with pictures of the not one but two birthday parties she threw for her toddler over the weekend.
Day one of the celebrations started on Saturday with a Trolls themed birthday party at Ferne's house.
Her place was decked out with trolls balloons, cardboard cutouts of characters and presents everywhere.
She even hired a woman to dress up in character as Poppy from the Trolls films to surprise the birthday girl.
Ferne looked chic in a crisp white shirt that she wore off the shoulder and matched with ripped blue jeans.
Sunday was dressed in a black jumper and white skirt, with black socks and a matching black bow in her hair.
Her mum captioned the photo: "Such a special day celebrating my Munchkin’s 2nd Birthday.
"Extra special that Princess Poppy made a little visit."
Then on Sunday, the second day of celebrations, it was a princess themed party at a local café in Essex.
There was a stunning two-tiered princess cake that was kept inside a Cinderella carriage.
A huge storybook backdrop framed by white and gold balloons stood in the background of Ferne's pictures,
She'd had her hair styled like Rapunzel's with a long flowing plait with flowers weaved in.
Ferne opted to wear a blue denim minidress with puffed sleeves as she balanced her little girl on her hip.
Sunday donned a matching denim dress with white ruffles and matching white shoes and hairbow.
Ferne captioned the post: "Once upon a time in a land far away lived a princess named Sunday.
"What a gorgeous morning at my girls princess party. Thankyou to everyone who came."
They also went out for a roast dinner, where Sunday got a dessert wishing her a happy birthday.
