
# Suncor Energy CEO calls for more Indigenous ownership of projects

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:20:17+00:00**

Author: **Chris Varcoe, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/business/energy/suncor-energy-ceo-calls-for-more-indigenous-ownership-of-projects)

The head of oilsands giant Suncor Energy wants the federal government to ensure the sale of the Trans Mountain pipeline back to the private sector includes Indigenous ownership.
But Mark Little also challenged the energy sector and other Canadian industries to step up to the plate and build new partnerships with First Nations across the country.
“It is very important that we start doing these types of equity deals, so we can have more and more First Nations sharing in the prosperity of both the energy industry, but also of Canada,” Little said Tuesday on the sidelines of a conference on the Tsuut’ina Nation.
“We need all industries, all business leaders, looking for these types of opportunities as we go forward. Trans Mountain is a very significant one and so I think it’s important that this push ahead and we make that happen, but … we need to work together and try and find those opportunities across the country.”
The concept of Indigenous ownership of the Trans Mountain pipeline has picked up momentum since the federal government purchased the development from Kinder Morgan last year for $4.5 billion. Finance Minister Bill Morneau has pledged to sell it once the expansion is substantially complete.
The planned expansion of the existing line, which moves oil from the Edmonton area to Burnaby, B.C., is seen as critical for the energy sector and the Alberta government, which have both been squeezed by a lack of transportation capacity out of Western Canada.
The project is under construction and will almost triple the amount of oil moving to the west coast, although it faces fierce opposition from environmentalists and some B.C. First Nations.
On Tuesday, the Tsleil-Waututh First Nation and several environmental organizations announced they’re seeking leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada a lower court ruling from last month surrounding the federal government’s approval of the Trans Mountain expansion.
After a Federal Court of Appeal ruling last year quashed the government’s initial approval, Ottawa gave the development the green light again in June.
During the summer, the federal government launched a new phase of discussions with Indigenous groups “on ways they could share in the benefits of the expansion,” including through equity ownership or revenue sharing, Morneau’s spokesperson Pierre-Olivier Herbert said in an e-mail.
“The work is ongoing. We are considering the input received during the initial engagement and are currently developing the approach for subsequent engagement steps.”
At least three Indigenous-led groups have expressed interest in buying part of the pipeline, including Alberta-based Iron Coalition, Project Reconciliation and the Western Indigenous Pipeline Group in British Columbia.
At the National Coalition of Chiefs’ Energy and Natural Resources Summit on Tuesday, Little noted two First Nations in Alberta acquired a significant stake in Suncor’s oilsands storage terminal, citing it as an example of what can be accomplished when industry and Indigenous communities join forces.
In 2017, the Fort McKay First Nation and the Mikisew Cree First Nation bought a 49 per cent interest in the East Tank Farm north of Fort McMurray for $503 million.
“This is transformative,” Little told the audience.
“It creates a model in which we aspire to do more in our future, a model in which we think can be used in so many other opportunities, like the Trans Mountain pipeline, which we continue to advocate for with the federal government.”
Project Reconciliation executive chairman Delbert Wapass told the conference the ability to buy a majority interest in the pipeline would give Indigenous communities a voice at the leadership table and authority to protect their traditional lands.
A former chief of the Thunderchild First Nation in Saskatchewan, Wapass said ownership would also create economic opportunities and wealth for those with a stake in the pipeline.
“At the end of the day, we have got to find a way to come together,” he said in an interview. “Poverty is our No. 1 enemy and we need to get away from managing poverty to managing wealth.”
The chief of the Fort McKay First Nation, which already has a group of companies active in the energy industry, said his community is assessing whether it wants to be involved in owning part of Trans Mountain.
Mel Grandjamb told the conference he believes any partnership on the pipeline would have to include First Nations from British Columbia.
“I’m starting to think that Fort McKay can play a key role on (bringing) all First Nations together. We’ve got the experience, we’ve got the know-how,” he told reporters.
“Right now, I’m sitting back and just doing an analysis to see where is it going to take my First Nation.”

        cvarcoe@postmedia.com
      
