
# Never not in vogue: Anna Wintour at 70 – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:13:53+00:00**

Author: **Guardian fashion**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/gallery/2019/nov/01/never-not-in-vogue-anna-wintour-at-70-in-pictures)


        She gets up at 4am, is pals with Roger Federer and once watched a fashion show with the Queen. As the editor-in-chief of American Vogue celebrates her birthday, we look back at her life so far
      
Wearing her trademark sunnies alongside magazine mogul SI Newhouse at a memorial for Diana Vreeland in November 1989.
Photograph: Ron Galella/WireImage
Outside the Condé Nast building in New York, August 1989.
Photograph: Ron Galella/WireImage
In a metallic trench at the opening of Galleries Lafayette at Trump Towers in New York, 1991.
Photograph: Ron Galella/WireImage
Alongside Diana, Princess of Wales, and Ralph Lauren (second from right) at a gala at the White House in September 1996.
Photograph: Tim Rooke/Rex/Shutterstock
Sharing the front row with fellow Vogue editor André Leon Talley at Donna Karan’s SS01 show in September 2000.
Photograph: George De Sota/Getty Images
With her children at a Sean John fashion show in New York, 2003.
Photograph: Matt Baron/BEI/Rex/Shutterstock
With Donald Trump at the US Open, 2005.
Photograph: Jeff Zelevansky/Reuters
Typing on her Blackberry on the front row ahead of the Meadham Kirchhoff SS10 London fashion week show.
Photograph: Chris Jackson/Getty Images
With the Italian designer Miuccia Prada during a press conference announcing the Schiaparelli and Prada: Impossible Conversations exhibition in Milan, 2012.
Photograph: Olivier Morin/AFP/Getty Images
Watching on as Michelle Obama cuts the ribbon at the opening of the Anna Wintour Costume Center at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, 2014.
Photograph: Paul Zimmerman/WireImage
Sharing the front row with Kim Kardashian West and her daughter North West at the Yeezy season two show in New York, 2015.
Photograph: Kevin Mazur
With Karl Lagerfeld at the British fashion awards in London, 2015.
Photograph: Mike Marsland/WireImage
Attending a Hillary Clinton fundraiser in 2016, the year US Vogue endorsed her presidential candidacy – it was the first time the magazine had ever been publicly partisan.
Photograph: James Devaney/GC Images
Sitting alongside Celine Dion at the Giambattista Valli autumn/winter 2017 haute couture show. Wintour has been present for many of the big fashion moments in recent history.
Photograph: Footwear News/REX/Shutterstock
Lining up ahead of a match between Jack Sock and Sam Querrey and Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal in Prague in 2017. Wintour is a lifelong tennis fan and pal of Federer.
Photograph: Julian Finney/Getty Images
Sharing a laugh with the Queen – who had made Wintour a dame the previous year – at the February 2018 show of the British designer Richard Quinn.
Photograph: Yui Mok/AFP/Getty Images
Watching the US Open alongside Venus Williams, Oracene Price and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, September 2019.
Photograph: Gotham/GC Images
Sharing a front row with the Beckham family at Victoria Beckham’s SS20 London fashion week show.
Photograph: Darren Gerrish/WireImage
Smiling in the company of Cardi B at the Thom Browne SS20 show in Paris.
Photograph: Rex/Shutterstock
