
# Don’t sit in seats not meant for you

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Reya Mehrotra**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/dont-sit-in-seats-not-meant-for-you/articleshow/71881671.cms)

Bengaluru Traffic Police are now taking their enforcement strategy inside Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s (BMTC) buses. So men must avoid seats reserved for women even if the bus you are in is nearly empty. Recently, the traffic police had fined two male passengers Rs 100 each for sitting on seats reserved for women. In BMTC buses, seats are reserved for women, senior citizens and for the physically challenged. But so far, all the fines for wrongly occupying reserved seats have been imposed on men occupying women’s seats. A senior traffic police official said, “Fine for men occupying women’s seat in buses has been in place since 1999-2000 but there was no enforcement. The major challenge is to stop buses and check them. Many passengers complain of the delay. Such enforcement is usually carried out at signals when it is a red lights and during surprise inspections at stops. The fine amount too is very low. This is intended to bring about discipline in public transport.” Though such cases have rarely been booked, traffic police have in the past launched special drives and raided several buses to check for men occupying women’s seats and have fined them on the spot. Such city wide drives were conducted in 2013 and 2014. A BMTC bus conductor said, “The traffic police have conducted such checks in buses only a few times as the stoppage can cause jams or delay in commute. Many a times, passengers themselves correct fellow passengers if they sit on seats reserved for others and conductors too tell them.”
