
# Best Pre-Black Friday Deals On Tech Today

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/best-pre-black-friday-deals-on-tech-today/)

It’s already November, which means many retailers have already announced some of their best deals in the lead-up to Black Friday. While stores like Walmart are featuring the usual doorbuster deals on home electronics, you don’t have to wait until November 29 to make a purchase on a deeply discounted electronic device.November is a great time to buy larger-ticket items like laptops, tablets and e-readers, because the discounts on these products can reach upwards of $150 or more. We’ve scoured the internet for the best deals on products from Microsoft, Samsung, Apple, and other top brands to make it easy for you to compare. Each product, while not always the newest generation, has earned exceptional reviews, even outperforming the latest models in some circumstances. Here are the best pre-Black Friday tech deals we could find.
The Microsoft Surface line of laptops has long offered among the best designs and highest performance in Windows 10 devices. The Surface Laptop 2 is a thin and portable laptop, with enough performance for the vast majority of users. 
This particular model of the Surface Laptop 2 comes with an Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage — which makes it easily good enough for web browsing, using productivity apps, watching movies and so on. Normally $999, the laptop is now available for $830.
The Surface Pro line of 2-in-1 devices offers a super-thin design that makes it perfect for students or professionals on the go, but that thing design doesn’t necessarily translate to low performance. In fact, the Surface Pro 6 is now available for $300 off its normal price, straight from Best Buy.
This model of the Surface Pro 6 comes with an Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM, and 256GB of storage, making it more than powerful enough for most basic tasks, productivity, and so on. This model comes in black — which is probably the sleekest color anyway. It’s important to note that you’ll have to buy the Type Cover and stylus separately.
Dell has some great pre-Black Friday deals going too, and the Dell Inspiron 14 5000 is an excellent choice for those who want a solid computer at an affordable price. The laptop may not be as sleek and stylish as the Surface devices on this list, but it’s still pretty slim and offers excellent specs.
You’ll get an Intel Core i3 processor, 8GB of RAM and 128GB of solid-state storage, which makes this laptop an excellent choice for students and professionals who don’t have the most demanding needs out there. It’s currently available straight from Dell for $500, which is $130 off its normal price.
Apple just launched a new iPad a few months ago, replacing the older 9.7-inch model with a new 10.2-inch device. The new Apple iPad boasts Apple’s A10 Fusion chip, along with options for either 32GB or 128GB of storage and a classic iPad design. Sure, it doesn’t look as modern as the iPad Pro, but even the older iPad design still looks great. With those specs, you can use the iPad for web browsing, social media, watching shows on Netflix, and more. 
While the iPad is normally available starting at $329, but it’s currently available on Amazon for $30 off its normal price, bringing the total to $299. That’s a pretty incredible price for a device that’s so powerful and versatile. 
The iPad is largely considered to be the most popular tablet on the market, but if you’re firmly in the Android ecosystem, it’s probably worth considering the Samsung Galaxy Tab A 10.1 instead. This tablet offers a 10.1-inch display, a hefty 128GB of storage, and more — and all at a super affordable price. The device is also pretty sleek and stylish, plus it plugs into your Google account, so it’ll integrate with your other Android devices.
While the Galaxy Tab A 10.1 usually comes at $330, like the iPad it has been brought down to an impressive $300.
Just last week, Amazon announced the newly updated Kindle Paperwhite, which has arguably been the best affordable e-reader on the market for years now. Now, you can take the device anywhere with peace of mind, thanks to its waterproof design, Wi-Fi + free cellular connectivity and weeks of battery life. Now with Audible, the device lets you switch from reading to listening through Bluetooth-enabled speakers or headphones at the touch of a button, making it the perfect commuting or travel partner.
Available as of November 7, the e-reader is currently listed for $130 on Amazon. While the device itself isn’t on sale, if you already own a Kindle, you can currently trade it in for a discount on the 2018 Kindle Paperwhite. If your device meets their standards, you’ll receive a 25 percent promotional discount toward the new Kindle plus an Amazon.com Gift Card equal to the appraised value of your Kindle. It's the equivalent of finding forgotten money in your coat pocket. Now is the time to root around your tech drawer for your outdated e-readers (even non-working devices are eligible).

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Perhaps you’d prefer a good e-book reader instead of a full-fledged tablet, and Amazon has long been known for building some of the best e-readers on the market. The Kindle Oasis is currently on its 10th generation, but the 9th-generation model still has a ton to offer — and it’s currently available for $199.99, or $50 off its normal price. 
The Kindle Oasis allows you to take advantage of Amazon’s massive library of e-books, plus it has a sleek design with a 7-inch display and easily fits inside your backpack or bag. It’s glare-free and makes e-books look like real pages — which seriously helps make for a more natural reading experience.
