
# Lady Gaga On Those Bradley Cooper Rumors: ‘We Made A Love Story’

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:27:18+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2484009/lady-gaga-on-those-bradley-cooper-rumors-we-made-a-love-story)

Written By
Last year, another iteration of the classic Hollywood story A Star is Born was brought to life by Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga’s Jackson and Ally. The heartbreaking, music-filled epic found its most powerful element in the undeniable chemistry between the two actors. So much so, they amassed a following of fans rooting for a real love story for the pair. And then when Cooper and Gaga walked hand-in-hand to the Oscar stage and nuzzled cheeks during their passionate performance of “Shallow”, thus the flames only fueled.
Not to mention how both Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga dealt with breakups with their own significant others around the same time A Star is Born was trending. Gaga also split with her fiancé Christian Carino just before the Oscars. And Cooper and his longtime girlfriend Irina Shayk (and mother to their young daughter) called it quits earlier this year as well. Were the stars were aligning just for the talented actors? Nope. Here’s what Lady Gaga says:
There you have it, the Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper rumors are only a result of acting at its finest. They really had the public fooled, though. If the Academy gave out a golden trophy for the most convincing on-screen couple, the Star is Born would have no doubt brought it home. As Lady Gaga tells it, the Oscars performance was carefully and purposefully orchestrated in a way that would make viewers believe in what the song communicates. The beautiful love Jackson and Ally have in the movie. Relive it below:
