
# How ‘Joker’ Is First R-Rated Film Topping Huge $1 Billion Box Office

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Hughes**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/markhughes/2019/11/04/how-joker-is-first-r-rated-film-topping-huge-1-billion-box-office/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2808529754&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesAsia)

After grossing $37 million internationally and $14 million domestically at the weekend box office, Warner Bros.’ super-villain origin tale Joker has amassed an impressive $934 million in global theatrical receipts. So it is now inevitable – Joker will become the first R-rated film topping the huge $1 billion mark at the box office.
It’s especially impressive that Joker will manage the $1 billion feat without a release in China, making it the first first-release film since 2008’s The Dark Knight to do so.
The total weekly tally for Joker over the past seven days – meaning the above weekend figures plus the preceding weekday data – tops $70+ million. Joker would have to drop 50% every week starting immediately, to fall below $1 billion. And since it dropped a remarkably low 24% in foreign markets and only 28% in North America this past weekend, there’s no serious chance of Joker suddenly suffering 50+% declines all of a sudden.
Even the imminent competition from Midway and Doctor Sleep next weekend, and subsequent challenges from Charlie's Angels and Ford v Ferrari are unlikely to send Joker toward/over the 50% line so soon and so quickly. Joker held strong in the face of multiple big-branded challengers so far, and I don’t think it will start falling more than perhaps 40% worldwide until late-November when Frozen 2 and Knives Out are likely to cause higher week-to-week dips for the Clown Prince of Crime.
If Joker sees a 40% global dip next weekend, another 40% dip the following weekend, and then falls 50% each subsequent weekend, then just those weekend receipts alone would push the film to about $999.5 million. Add in the Monday-Thursday box office around the world for the next several weeks, and Joker easily passes $1 billion.
In fact, I anticipate Joker will dance past the $1 billion mark in two more weekends, topping the magic number by Sunday November 17th. If by chance it happens to fall more than I expect in the next two weeks, then I still don’t think it will pass $1 billion any later than Sunday November 24th. And should it hold even better than my moderate estimates, then it could potentially be in the billion-dollar club as early as Friday November 15th.
Joker will be the fourth Warner Bros. DC movie to earn more than $1 billion in global box office, behind The Dark Knight, The Dark Knight Rises, and Aquaman. It seems all but certain (barring some unforeseen major declines in weekly performance) Joker will top The Dark Knight’s $1.004 billion receipts for third place on that DC film list, but there doesn’t appear to be any scenario that gets it past The Dark Knight Rises’ $1.081 billion cume...
Unless, that is, Warner decides to make a deal to edit the film for a PG-13 rating for a China release. In that case, there would be a good chance – if not likelihood – Joker would surpass The Dark Knight Rises and become the second-biggest DC movie in Warner history.
It would really only require a mild edit, removing a few seconds from three particular murders, and reducing the profanity by a few instances, to get Joker into PG-13 territory. So I’m not entirely sure yet whether or not to expect a China release. But with award season starting, the buzz for Joker could get loud enough soon enough to convince Warner a China release’s box office success would add momentum and further sizzle to Joker’s already-record-shattering performance, which can translate into better odds with the Academy’s PGA block, for example.
But even without a China release, Joker is already a historic release that has helped significantly mitigate the problematic underperformances of several of Warner’s other 2019 projects. With a relatively low budget, Joker’s profit margins are going to be mind-boggling, and it doesn’t frankly need Chinese theaters at this point. The extra revenue would be pure gravy and bragging rights at this point, but the studio’s share of those dollars would be small, and they’d need a marketing campaign that might eat up most of Warner’s share of revenue anyway.
Check this space again soon and stay tuned for more updates on Joker’s march toward $1 billion, and for other news about Warner’s DC superhero films.
