
# Get the Gravity Blanket and other weighted blankets at deep discounts

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:31+00:00**

Author: **Boing Boing&#39;s Shop**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/01/get-the-gravity-blanket-and-ot.html?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+boingboing%2FiBag+%28Boing+Boing%29)

There's nothing like snuggling up under a good blanket, especially when that blanket can snuggle you back. As the popularity of the Gravity Blanket testifies, there's more to a good bedcover than just soft material. These blankets incorporate subtle weights to create a swaddling effect that can ease you to sleep, and they're all on deep discount.

        Gravity Travel Blanket: Gravity On-the-Go
      
There are tiny glass beads woven into the fabric of this innovative covering, making it dangerously easy to fall asleep under. And while its 66" x 42" dimensions make it more than big enough to bunk up under, the included travel bag makes it super portable.

        MSRP: $185
      

        Sale Price: $125
      

        The Calm Embrace Weighted Blanket
      
Strategically-sized pockets on the Calm Embrace keep its glass nanobeads evenly distributed, which makes for a subtle, comforting fit. And the breathable cotton/polyester duvet cover gives it an extra dose of coziness.

        MSRP: $249
      

        Sale Price: $139
      

        Bibb Home 10 Lb Weighted Blanket & Mink Cover
      
This versatile blanket features a mink cover that you can remove during hot summer nights and add back on for the winter chill. The well-distributed layer of non-toxic weighted beads makes this one suitable for sleepers between 100 and 140 pounds.
MSRP: $139
Sale Price: $95

        BlanQuil™ Chill Cooling Weighted Blanket with Removable Cover
      
A lot went into the design of this one, from the baffling and weight distribution that delivers Deep Touch Stimulation therapy to the shift-resistant ties for the duvet cover. What's more, the special cotton-polyester blend disperses body heat to keep your temperature even throughout the night. Take your pick of packages and duvet colors.

        BlanQuil™ Chill Cooling Weighted Blanket with Removable Cover
      

        MSRP: $299
      

        Sale Price: $199
      

        BlanQuil™ Basic Weighted Blanket (Grey)
      

        MSRP: $129
      

        Sale Price: $84.99
      

        Serenity Weighted Blanket
      
Here's a blanket that helps lift away both insomnia and the blues. Both the blanket and tote bag are made of organic cotton, and its 15 pounds of weight gives you a secure feeling that can help increase serotonin and melatonin levels in the body.

        MSRP: $209
      

        Sale Price: $172
      

        Home Collection Navy Weighted Blanket
      
Anyone would want to crawl into this mink blanket after a long day. But the lightweight added inside (8 lb.) makes it especially appealing if you need a little more comfort around bedtime. Take your pick of several colors, all 15% off the list price.

        MSRP: $129.99
      

        Sale Price: $109.99
      
• Home Collection Navy Weighted Blanket
• Home Collection Ivory Weighted Blanket
• Home Collection Purple Weighted Blanket
• Home Collection Sage Weighted Blanket
