
# ‘Housefull 4’ box-office collection Day 8 early estimates: The Akshay Kumar starrer holds strong on its second Friday

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:44:37+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-day-8-early-estimates-the-akshay-kumar-starrer-holds-strong-on-its-second-friday/articleshow/71861720.cms)

Filmmaker Farhad Samji’s crazy comic caper ‘Housefull 4’ has set the cash registers ringing at the box-office ever since the release of the film. After witnessing an excellent first week collection at the box office, the multi-starrer had an exceptional weekend too. Now, according to the latest reports in BoxofficeIndia.com, the Akshay Kumar starrer is maintaining a strong hold over the box-office by collecting about Rs 7.75- 8 crore nett on its eighth day. The film has reportedly had the best second Friday of the year after Shahid Kapoor starrer ‘Kabir Singh’.
This film took-off on Monday post the Diwali holiday and witnessed completely occupied mass centers and single screens.
The film has done a bit low in metros due to unfavourable reviews and a lot of negativity in the trade market. The film has collected a huge Rs 87 crore over the four days post-Diwali holiday. The Gujarat/Saurashtra circuit leads the way with huge record-breaking numbers of the last four days. The film has also done excellently in northern and central Indian circuits.
Directed by Farhad Samji, ‘Housefull 4’ boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth installment of the hit comedy franchise.
The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box-office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
