
# I am and will always be your fan sir, says Shah Rukh Khan to THIS Bollywood actor

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/i-am-and-will-always-be-your-fan-sir-says-shah-rukh-khan-to-this-bollywood-actor/articleshow/71890778.cms)

Shah Rukh Khan celebrated his 54th birthday on the 2nd of November, which turned out to be one of the biggest events for his fans. Like always Shah Rukh greeted his fans at Mannat and also attended a special event which was organised for his birthday. Social media was abuzz with warm wishes for the king khan. His fans, well-wishers and close friends from the fraternity also took to their micro-blogging sites to extend the possible warmest wish for the actor.
Of late, King Khan was noticed replying to the wishes of all his near and dear ones who wished the actor on his birthday and while browsing the social media, we stumbled upon a very heartwarming wish to which SRK had an overwhelming reply. Anil Kapoor who shares a great bond with SRK for long now wished the Badshah of Bollywood with a very cheerful wish. He wrote, "From meeting you for the 1st time on the set of Benam Badshah in 1990, to now, almost 2020, you haven't changed a bit! The power in your eyes, the swagger, confidence, humour, warmth, kindness & your love for my family! Keep inspiring the world my friend! Happy Birthday, @iamsrk!."
SRK replied to this tweet in the best possible way and admitted that he is and will always be Anil Kapoor's fan. SRK too recalled the days when he met Anil for the first time and also shared how the 'Benaam Badshah' actor gave him the confidence to believe that he can belong in films. SRK replied, "I am and will always be your fan sir. The kindness you showed me when we met for the first time, gave me the confidence to believe I can belong in films. Thank u and love u."
Anil Kapoor and Shah Rukh Khan might have done only one film together (Trimurti) but their camaraderie sounds like they share great respect and rapport with each other. All we can say is these exchange of words are really heart-touching.
