
# Labour pledges to save free TV licences as general election campaign hots up

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/labour-pledges-save-free-tv-20806425)

Morning,
It's a (sadly, old-fashioned) mark of decency, honour and virtue that if you say you're going to do something, you should do it.
That includes when it becomes uncomfortable, unpalatable or personally inconvenient.
So when the Conservatives promised to maintain free TV licences for the over-75s in the 2017 general election , there were no caveats or get-out clauses; it seemed a straight pledge that millions of pensioners took at face value.
But they reckoned without the sneakiness of the Tories, seeking to evade responsibility for their own commitments.
And so began one of the more unedifying spectacles of this Parliament: Conservative ministers desperately trying to wriggle out of their own manifesto vow.
Slippery Boris Johnson, who is obviously wary of the row brewing as the election campaign hots up, said at the weekend: "This needs sorting out urgently and I'll be talking to the BBC about how to sort that out."
Well, for starters it “needed sorting out urgently” more than a year ago when the Mirror began warning of the threat to the benefit.
Secondly, he has repeatedly tried to blame the BBC for Conservatives breaking a manifesto pledge.
Labour, which introduced free licences in 1999, has seized on the Tory betrayal and campaigned, along with the Mirror and pensioner groups, to save them.
Today, we exclusively reveal how the party will step in and reverse the Conservatives' U-turn, safeguarding the vital lifeline .
Deputy Leader Tom Watson is unequivocal in his pledge: “Our message is clear, vote Labour to save free TV licences."
Today hundreds of MPs will elect the new Commons Speaker to replace John Bercow .
Bercow was a divisive figure who did much to modernise Parliament but was accused of partisanship.
Westminster watchers all have their favourites of who they would like to succeed him .
But one thing we should all agree on is the new Speaker should be less of a star and more of an impartial umpire.
As one of the candidates said, observers want to remember the game, not the referee.

        On today:
      
2pm - Nigel Farage unveils Brexit Party election candidates
2.30pm - MPs begin electing John Bercow's successor

        What I am reading:
      
OAPs on the streets of Leeds welcoming Labour's pledge to save free TV licences
* If you would like the newsletter sent to your inbox sign up here : http://www.mirror.co.uk/newsletters/politics-newsletter/
