
# ‘Wexit’ applies to become a federal political party

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Katya Slepian**

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/wexit-applies-to-become-a-federal-political-party-elections-canada/)

The “Wexit” movement has applied to become a federal political party, according to Elections Canada.
The agency said Tuesday it’s start the first part of the verification process, which is to ensure the application is complete and contains all the mandatory information. Staff will then verify the 250 signatures of supporters collected by the group, then clear it to begin the official registration process.
The Wexit movement took shape in Alberta after the Trudeau Liberals won the federal election on Oct. 21. It bills itself as separatist, focusing on enhanced economic, military and geo-political cooperation with the United States, delivering essential government services only, and ending public investment in energy technology such as wind and solar.
It has a motto, “The West Wants Out,” and a Facebook group with more than 263,000 members as of Tuesday morning.
To register as a federal party, Elections Canada needs:

        
          READ MORE: ‘Havoc and chaos:’ Alberta separatist group gains support as Liberals re-elected
        
      

        
          READ MORE: Oil would still be landlocked under ‘Wexit,’ experts say
        
      

        @katslepian
      

        katya.slepian@bpdigital.ca
      
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.
