
# Coldest air of the season is on the way for Eastern US

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:51:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/US/coldest-air-season-eastern-us/story?id=66762221)

30 cities in the eastern U.S. had its warmest October on record and now we go from that to winter-like weather. The next several days will feel like a frigid slap in the face for millions east of the Rockies.
Add Weather as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Weather news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Weather Add Interest
Before the arctic blast, we have to watch two storm systems moving east with snow and heavy rain.
The first storm system will bring mostly snow to the Great Lakes and Upper Midwest with some areas getting close to 4 inches of snow.
This morning, 4 states from Minnesota to Michigan are under a Winter Weather Advisory for the snow to come later today into Wednesday morning.
A second storm system will develop in the southern Plains Wednesday night and will spread heavy rain from Oklahoma to Missouri for Thursday morning. Some flash flooding is possible as some areas could see more than 3 inches of rain.
To the north of the rain where the cold air is in place, snow will develop from southern Indiana to Ohio where some areas could see first accumulating snow of the season.
By Thursday afternoon, the storm system will move quickly into the Northeast bringing the first significant snow to the eastern Great Lakes from Cleveland to Erie, Pennsylvania and into Buffalo, New York and into northern New England.
South of there, most major cities along I-95 corridor will be warm enough for just rain.
By Thursday night, the storm system really explodes in New England with heavy snow inland areas and rain and wind along the coast.
As cold air moves in behind the low pressure system, some areas along I-95 could see a brief period of snow, even NYC and Boston.
What is certain is that a major cold blast is on the way end of the week into the weekend from the Plains to the Northeast and even into parts of the South.
