
# Who's next? New Zealand Rugby invites 26 Kiwis to replace Steve Hansen for All Blacks coach

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:42:19+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/whos-next-new-zealand-rugby-invites-26-kiwis-to-replace-steve-hansen-for-all-blacks-coach)


        
          By Christopher Reive, NZ Herald
        
      
When it comes to selecting a new All Blacks head coach, he won’t be an individual the selection panel will be looking at.
New Zealand Rugby has invited 26 Kiwi coaches to apply for the vacant role as All Blacks head coach, asking those invited to bring their team of supporting coaches into the process with them.
NZR chairperson Brett Impey said NZR wrote to a number of coaches directly asking them to apply for roles with the national team, with a five-person panel to ultimately make the selection.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
Alongside Impey on the panel will be former All Blacks coach Sir Graham Henry, NZR Chief Executive Mark Robinson, NZR Head of High Performance Mike Anthony and former Silver Ferns Coach and High Performance Sport New Zealand director, Waimarama Taumaunu. Outgoing NZR boss Steve Tew elected not to be on the panel.
“We have made it clear that anybody who gets into this process, come along with your team,” Impey said. “Whether it’s your scrum coach, your backs coach, your defence coach, whatever it is we want to see a team going forward.
“Those 26 candidates know what we’ve been saying so we’re expecting that in the applications.”
