
# Mark Tewksbury's Belong, Daniel McIvor's Let's Run Away among the High Performance Rodeo shows now on sale

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:43+00:00**

Author: **Louis B. Hobson**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/entertainment/theatre/mark-tewksburys-belong-daniel-mcivors-lets-run-away-among-the-high-performance-rodeo-shows-now-on-sale)

With more than 19,000 ticket holders, the highest number this past decade, One Yellow Rabbit’s 2019 High Performance Rodeo was a record-breaking success.
Laurel Green, the festival producer of the 2020 High Performance Rodeo that runs Jan. 8-26, knows this is a hard act to follow but she’s confident the new festival’s line up will ensure the excitement generated last year will continue and likely surpassed.
“We are pairing the hottest national and international touring productions with some of the finest local productions available. Nothing makes me prouder than to point out that our local artists are just as wild, radical and exceptional as anything we are bringing in. They can easily take their place beside the best in the world,” says Green.
She feels showcasing local talent alongside award-winning international shows is an important mandate for the High Performance Rodeo.
“Calgary artists can use the Rodeo as a springboard. The excitement they are certain to generate here over the 19-day festival will benefit them greatly if they decide to tour their shows.”
The 2020 Rodeo will feature more than 100 artists from as far afield as Norway, Mexico and Vietnam performing in 13 local venues. In addition there will be 10 free events this year. The Rodeo’s website at hprodeo.ca is now active so you can read more about each of the 15 visiting productions and 12 local shows and reserve tickets to them.
Green says everyone at One Yellow Rabbit is super pumped for the upcoming festival and would love to share their excitement and enthusiasm so if you have question about any of the shows, the $15 Wednesday tickets or the special flex passes Green urges you to phone and chat with a Rodeo staff member.
Green insists every show booked for the 2020 Rodeo is a winner but warns there are several shows that could sell out quickly.
Over the years, solo artist Daniel McIvor has proven to be one of the most popular Rodeo guests. McIvor’s newest piece Let’s Run Away is currently running at Canadian Stage in Toronto. The High Performance Rodeo will be the show’s next engagement.
One Yellow Rabbit is reviving it’s 1991 ensemble piece The Land, The Animals which Green calls an ecological comedy and it feature Denise Clarke, Andy Curtis and Christopher Hunt, the artists who originally created it with David Rhymer who composed the original music.
Calgary Olympian Mark Tewksbury sold out his heartfelt and heartwarming memory play Belong at Wordfest and One Yellow Rabbit has asked him to bring it back for an extended run at the Rodeo.
Rebecca Northan’s improvised romantic comedy Blind Date has become an international hit. Now, in conjunction with Toronto’s Buddies in Bad Times Theatre, Northan has created Queer Blind Date which opens the dating to same sex, trans and gender-queer parings. Julie Orton and David Benjamin Tomlinson will take turns dating an audience member with a little help from Bruce Horak.
Indigenous actor and playwright Cliff Cardinal had a huge hit at the 2016 Rodeo with his show Huff. He’ll be back at the 2020 Rodeo with Cliff Cardinal’s CBC Special which Green says is a “very mischievous imagining of what a Cliff Cardinal CBC variety show would be like.” Green is quick to point out this show doesn’t not necessarily have the CBC’s blessing.
Calgary’s own theatre rebels Major Matt Mason Collective had a massive hit at the Pumphouse Theatre with it’s show Premium Content that rotated its cast members at various performances changing the sexual pairings. This is a show likely to get repeat viewings and it is in one of the festival’s smaller venues, the 60-seat Grand Studio Theatre, so tickets will definitely be at a premium.
