
# Kyle Sinckler suffers heartbreak as 2019 Rugby World Cup final ends after two minutes

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:23:24+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/kyle-sinckler-suffers-heartbreak-2019-20793585)

Kyle Sinckler suffered Rugby World Cup heartbreak when the biggest match of his life was ended after just two minutes in Japan.
England’s tighthead prop had been one of the stars of the tournament and had won a fitness race to be fit for the final.
But he came to grief before the game had even properly got going - colliding with the elbow of Red Rose teammate Maro Itoje as they attempted to tackle South Africa wing Makazole Mapimpi.
Gary Lineker sympathised with the rugby star, tweeting: "What a shame for Kyle Sinckler. To go off so early in a World Cup final must be heartbreaking."
 
It capped an unconvincing start by Eddie Jones’ men who have been taken aback by the ferocity of the Springboks’ opening.
Handre Pollard kicked them into the lead on 10 minutes as Dan Cole came on to replace Sinckler.
Cole must play 77 minutes at tighthead if England are not to have to deploy loosehead Joe Marler out of position in the later stages.
Sinckler, one of the stars of this tournament, suffered a calf injury in the semi-final win over New Zealand and has not trained fully so far this week.
But he had been passed fit to start against South Africa in Yokohama in what is Jones' 50th game in charge.
England have lost only nine of those games and are favourites to beat the Springboks and reclaim a title they last won in 2003.
