
# The Bond That Harms: The Impact Of Trauma Bonding On Human Trafficking Victims

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yvette Young**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/civicnation/2019/11/06/the-bond-that-harms-the-impact-of-trauma-bonding-on-human-trafficking-victims/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Human trafficking is the second most profitable illegal crime in the world. The sale of humans continues to occur in the 21st century at an alarming rate. According to a 2017 study, nearly 25 million people globally are victims of modern slavery. My work as the Human Anti-trafficking Response Team (HART) Coordinator for the State of Connecticut has allowed me the opportunity to speak with several survivors of human trafficking. It is their stories and their pain that motivates me to ensure people understand how human trafficking impacts the lives of victims. Traffickers and buyers want human trafficking to be kept in the shadows because it benefits them, but it is time for us to put a spotlight on it. Through awareness we can begin to identify and rescue current victims and ultimately prevent others from experiencing this form of exploitation.
What is human trafficking? The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 defines severe forms of trafficking in persons as:
The trafficking of individuals for the purpose of sex or labor is often believed to be an international issue, not a domestic crisis. The reality is that human trafficking does not discriminate based on race, socio-economic status, age, gender, or geographic location. Thousands of human trafficking cases are found right here in the United States. The National Human Trafficking Resource Center Hotline received 25,696 cases of human trafficking from 2007 to 2015. The majority of these cases were sex trafficking cases.
As the HART Coordinator in Connecticut, it became very evident to me that human trafficking is a backyard issue. We have identified victims in all regions of the state. The reality is any community or any child can be impacted by human trafficking. The State of Connecticut Department of Children and Families (DCF) has increasingly sharpened its focus on the growing issue of Domestic Minor Sex Trafficking (DMST) afflicting children across the state. From 2008 to 2018, 1,065 children have been referred to DCF as high risk or confirmed victims of DMST. Victims range from the age of two to 18 years old, both boys and girls from various racial groups and socioeconomic statuses. Every year the number of referrals to DCF increases. In 2018, a total of 210 referrals were called into DCF. Too many of our children are being exploited, not just here in Connecticut but nationally and globally and, as a result, are experiencing psychological and physical trauma at an early age. 
Many human trafficking victims experience repeated exposure to traumatic events as a result of trauma bonding. Dutton and Painter define trauma bonding as the situation in which “powerful emotional attachments are seen to develop from two specifics features of abusive relationships: power imbalances and intermittent good-bad treatment.” Sex traffickers utilize various strategies to attain control and obedience from their victims, which results in their victims’ dependence on them. These strategies include “subjecting their victims to starvation, rape, gang rape, physical abuse, beating, confinement, threats of violence toward the victim and victim’s family, forced drug use, and shame.” 
Erin Williamson, Director of Survivor Care at Love 146—a non-profit organization that works with DMST youth—states, “We can have youth recognize the horrible exploitation and even physical abuse they sustained at the hands of their trafficker, and in the same breath tell us that they still ‘love’ them.”
“Traffickers spend a lot of time upfront grooming these youth,” says Mrs. Williamson. “They convince these youth that they are the only ones who truly care, that they can protect them and care for them.” 
This level of manipulation distorts the youth’s perception of victimization. Our children are vulnerable to the tactics of traffickers and buyers. Exploiters take advantage of this vulnerability to lure children into a life of trafficking. Our children are not aware of the tactics exploiters use to recruit them. It is easy for victims to bond to traffickers, as they often present themselves as loving adult figures. The impact of trauma bonding is that it prolongs the exploitation of trafficked youth, leaving many victims traumatized and in need of healing. 
“Not everybody gets a chance to be a survivor, and there are girls out there right now that don’t even know that they’re victims…but maybe, just maybe, they’ll see one of us and they’ll hear one of us and they’ll know that there is help, there is hope and there is a way out,” says Angela Ritter, a survivor of trafficking.
Repeated exposure to sexual exploitation has a tremendous impact on the physical and psychological health of a human trafficking victim. Reports show that those who survive their exploitation have various symptoms such as trauma bonding and attachment issues, eating disorders, depression, anxiety, battles with suicidal thoughts, self-injury, substance abuse, and medical issues. 
The eradication of human trafficking and the harm it creates requires a collective response and the awareness that recovery is attainable. President Barack Obama said it best when he stated,
I aim to live in a world free from human trafficking. My goal is to be a voice for the voiceless and work to protect the most vulnerable among us. I want to ensure that the bond that harms never gets established by bringing awareness about human trafficking to all communities so we can protect our children from those who intend to harm them. 
