
# Cristiano Ronaldo's 'hairdresser' stabbed to death in Swiss hotel room

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:10:37+00:00**

Author: **Gerard Couzens**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/cristiano-ronaldos-hairdresser-stabbed-death-20801320?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

A celebrity hairdresser dubbed “Cristiano Ronaldo’s crimper” has been stabbed to death in a Swiss hotel room.
Ricardo Marques Ferreira has been named as the murder victim whose body was found by a cleaner at a business hotel in Zurich’s Albisrieden neighbourhood on Friday.
Portugal’s leading tabloid Correio da Manha today linked him to the former Real Madrid and Man United star, describing him as “ Cristiano Ronaldo ’s hairdresser.”
The hair stylist and make-up artist, from the island of Madeira like Cristiano, posted a photo on social media of him putting the final touches to the footballer’s look for a September 2015 photoshoot.
 
The dead man, whose body was discovered around 2pm on Friday, was found in bed with multiple stab wounds. The murder weapon was not found at the scene.
Police in Zurich are still thought to be hunting the killer.
Local reports said several guests had phoned reception hours before the grim discovery to complain about noise coming from the victim’s room.
The scene the cleaner came across has been described as “horrific”, with reports the room he was in smelt intensely of alcohol
The dead man, nicknamed Caju, had been living in Zurich for the past two years and had been staying at the hotel where he was killed for around a week.
Portuguese press reports say he also worked with models and Portuguese actresses as well as Cristiano, currently playing for Juventus .
There has been no reaction so far from the footballer to the reports. His agency Gestifute has been approached for comment.
Albisrieden is a neigbourhood in District Nine in Zurich. It used to be a municipality of its own before it was incorporated into Zurich in 1934.
