
# Mum of baby murdered by dad glad monster killer will pay for his actions

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:34:51+00:00**

Author: **Andy Rudd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/andy-rudd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-baby-murdered-dad-glad-20808290)

The mother of a newborn baby murdered by his dad has said she is "glad" the monster killer "will pay for his actions".
Evil Denis Beytula admitted murdering his three-week-old son, Andrei and the attempted murder of his mother Andreea Steffan at Newcastle Crown Court last week.
Brave Andreea broke her silence about the attack saying she felt "so lucky" to have survived and afterwards she gave her reaction to his guilty plea.
In a Facebook post Andreea, 21, who managed to dial 999 following the knife attack at their family home following a row, said: "I am glad he will pay for his actions ! At least he pleaded guilty the heartless man! Thanks to the justice."
Little Andrei passed away days later in hospital after the attack on October 2.
Andreea was also seriously injured but has now been discharged from hospital.
The court heard there was a "background of domestic violence, broadly speaking to this offence", although full details were not outlined.
Beytula's barrister described the relationship as "turbulent" but a judge said Andreea described the relationship as "coercive", adding: "There's a difference between a turbulent relationship and a coercive relationship she describes."
Taking to Facebook last week Andreea said she was "feeling better" and thanked the community for their support and revealed she was grateful to God for saving her.
She wrote: "I would like to take this opportunity to thank to everyone who came to leave flowers and toys and paid respect to my son, in front of my house.
" I really appreciate it and thanks to everyone for the messages.
"It’s really nice to see how you guys support me and my family during this hard time.
"May God give to everyone what they deserve! Thanks to all of you again!!"
When a friend commented "God has been and is with you" Andreea replied: "That's right! I was so lucky."
Another friend wrote: "Beautiful as ever. Hope ur feeling better.
And Andreea replied: "Thanks Kelly, And yes , I am feeling better , I hope u are ok xx."
Beytula, who was remanded in custody and will be sentenced on December 19, was told today he is facing a lengthy jail term after entering guilty pleas for both counts.
Following the conviction, senior investigating officer Detective Chief Inspector Dave Cole praised the bravery of Andreea throughout the investigation.
He said: “This was a truly horrific assault that rocked an entire community and even now it is difficult to comprehend how Denis Beytula could commit these offences.
“His victims were both completely innocent and they were two people he was supposed to love and protect - he betrayed them in the most violent of ways.
“It is tragic when any life is taken away but it is particularly distressing when that life is a beautiful baby boy and I know that has had a profound effect on the wider community.
“I welcome the fact that Beytula has pleaded guilty and prevented Andreea and her family from having to suffer the ordeal of a trial, however, I know that will bring her little comfort.
“She has been a pillar of strength throughout our investigation and I just want to take this opportunity to praise her for her incredible bravery at what continues to be a very difficult time.
“Andreea fought for her life and because of her determination she is alive today to see this man put behind bars, but what happened that day will stay with her for the rest of her life.
“Her world will never be the same again but we will continue to offer her all the support she needs so she can try and begin to move on with her life.”
DCI Cole added: “I also want to take this opportunity to again praise the emergency responders who helped to save Andreea’s life and gave Andrei a fighting chance.
“It is hard to comprehend how they must have felt when they were administering first aid to such a young baby who had been attacked in such a violent manner.
“Their response was exemplary and I want to thank them for their actions. I know what they saw will live with them for the rest of their lives and we will make sure they have access to any support they need.”
Neighbours told Chronicle Live how Andreea 'longed' for a child and excitedly prepared her home for the baby's arrival before the attack.
A couple who live next door to the scene, at Portland Close, Wallsend, North Tyneside, told reporters Andreea "was always saying how much she was looking forwards to having the baby."
The 56-year-old male neighbour, who did not want to be named, told Chronicle Live :  "She just seemed really excited."
And his wife explained how Andreea had told her she was expecting a boy.
The 57-year-old added: "She was talking to me a few days before she gave birth saying how excited she was and how she knew it was going to be a boy.
"She was really excited, they were getting stuff for the flat and getting everything ready.
"We couldn't believe it when we heard what had happened."
Moments before the alleged attack overjoyed Andreea posted a loving Facebook message about her newborn son.
She wrote: "I asked God to send me a man who will always love me. So, he gave me a son." It was followed by a blue heart and baby emoji.
The message was posted at 1.44pm on Wednesday - just 31 minutes before emergency services were called to the family home and found mum and son with life-threatening injuries.
Just two days before the attack Andreea posted a black and white picture of her and Denis with the caption: "I love you so much."
In another image of the couple she wrote: "My love."
And on September 20 Andreea posted a bedroom selfie with a moses basket in the background with a mother and baby emoji.
Earlier last month she posted another bedroom selfie captioned #39weeks.
A baby on a stretcher and a woman wrapped in blankets were seen being taken away by air ambulance in the minutes after the attack.
