
# Kymco debuts RevoNex all-electric naked sport; to go on sale by 2021

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/technology/auto/kymco-debuts-revonex-all-electric-naked-sport-to-go-on-sale-by-2021-4610571.html)

Taiwanese bikemaker Kymco presented its latest offering at the ongoing EICMA 2019, in the form of the RevoNex electric naked motorcycle. It is essentially a naked form of the company’s SuperNex fully-faired electric motorcycle.
The electric naked has a 0-100 km/h time of 3.9 seconds, with a top speed of 200+ km/h. It is equipped with the company’s Electric Full Range Acceleration (EFA) system, which is its version of launch control. The e-bike also gets Kymco’s Active Acoustic Motor (AAM) which combines its sound with the transmission’s mechanical sound to produce an immersive experience.
Since electric motorcycles deliver their entire torque instantly, Kymco is offering the RevoNex with four rider modes. These include Poised, Assertive, Bold and Extreme along with variable traction control.
CloseKymco has also equipped the motorcycle with upside down forks and a monoshock. It gets two discs in the front and a single disc at the back. This is in addition to an aggressive split LED headlamp, a beefy tank which also gets Kymco’s insignia, split seats and an LED taillamp. The company is expected to launch the fully electric motorcycle in the international markets by 2021. Considering the brewing storm of electric vehicles in India, it can be safely assumed that Kymco will eventually introduce the motorcycle to the Indian market.Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
