
# Ballintubber book semi-final date with Corofin

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:49:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/sport/roundup/articles/2019/11/03/4181861-ballintubber-book-semifinal-date-with-corofin/)

ANOTHER date with the current Galway, Connaught and All-Ireland champions, Corofin, was the prize for Ballintubber who eased through their quarterfinal clash against Glencar-Manorhamilton at a wet and slippery Elverys MacHale Park, Castlebar, this afternoon.
It finished 1-11 to 0-9 in favour of the Mayo champions who were never under pressure and that was without their talismanic Cillian O’Connor who was absent.
The first half was evenly contested in very difficult conditions with Ballintubber just nosing ahead by 0-6 to 0-5 at the break.
However, the game lurched dramatically in favour of the Mayo champions inside two minutes of the restart with Alan Plunkett finding the net with the only goal of the game.
To rub even more salt into the wound, the Leitrim champions were reduced to 14 men in the 34th minute when a second yellow card saw Killian McGriskin take the long walk and with him went any slim chance the visitors had of causing an upset.
If it is any consolation for the visitors they had the best player on show with corner forward Conor Dolan scoring 0-6 and putting in a huge performance, but Ballintubber always had the edge in experience and craft and dominated around the middle thanks to Jason Gibbons and Diarmuid O’Connor.
Alan Dillon, Gibbons, Stephen O’Malley (three frees) and Ciaran Gavin, who scored for point (two frees) in that first half, were superb for the champions who now face Corofin in a repeat of last year’s final.
That was in Castlebar but they must now travel to Tuam on Sunday for the semi-final knowing they will need to improve if they are to take another big step towards winning their first ever Connaught title.
 
Ballintubber: B. Walsh, G. Loftus, B. Murphy, R. O’Connor, D. Coleman, M. Plunkett, M. Kelly, J. Gibbons (0-1), D. O’Connor, C. Gavin (0-4, 4f), A. Plunkett (1-1), B. Walsh, N. Geraghty, A. Dillon (0-1), S. O’Malley (0-4, 3f).
Sub used: K. McDonnell for N. Geraghty (inj, 31), P. O’Connor for A. Plunkett (50), J. Finnerty for B. Walsh (BC, 55), J. Geraghty for Kelly (57).
Glencar/Manorhamilton: A. McDonald, T. McDonald, F. Rooney, T. Coyle, K. MGriskin, B. McDonald, P. Gilmartin, D. Sweeney, P. Maguire, A. Croal, J. Glancy (0-2), J. Rooney, N. Brady, E. Sweeney, C. Dolan (0-6, 4f).
Subs used: G. Hickey for T. Coyle (45), D. Maguire for Croal (45), P. Poniard for McDonald (BC, 50), R. Flynn for Glancy (54), D. Byrne (0-1) for Brady (57).
Referee: B. Judge (Sligo).
