
# Teen hit with baseball bat until it broke and strangled by boy she met on dating app

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:18:19+00:00**

Author: **Adrian Troughton, Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teen-hit-baseball-bat-until-20831431)

A teenager was beaten with a baseball bat until it broke then strangled by a boy she met on a dating app.
Emily Harvey, 19, was lured to the boy's flat where he hit her with the bat, before grabbing a frying pan to continue his violent onslaught.
The 17-year-old attacker, from Loughborough, who cannot be named for legal reasons, also used a vacuum cleaner pipe as a weapon and went on to strangle Ms Harvey until she passed out, Leicestershire Live reports.
Leicester Crown Court heard that during the prolonged and sadistic attack, he took sick photographs of Emily, terrified and cowering on his settee, and shared them with a friend and his half-brother.
Emily said she managed to escape his evil clutches after she woke up - before he accused her of stabbing him.
 
Realising what happened, she fled the flat and ran into the arms of a neighbour who called the police.
Recalling her ordeal, Emily said: “He had beaten me with a baseball bat, and when he broke that on me, he got a frying pan and hit me on the back of the head with it, then picked up a Hoover pipe and started to rain blows on me with that."
When her attacker started to strangle her she said she could feel herself passing out.
“At that moment, I thought, ‘This is it. He’s going to kill me’," she said. "Then it all went black.”
Emily had no idea how long she had lost consciousness but when she came around and he accused her of stabbing him she feared he would kill her.
She said: "He screamed at me for attacking him and told me to get out.
“I managed to get to my feet and I ran as fast as I could out of the door.
“As I tried to get out of the building I bumped into one of his neighbours. She took me in and called the police.”
Emily's traumatic ordeal had lasted a total of six hours.
 
She had met her attacker through the dating app Badoo where they laughed and joked before she agreed to go to his flat.
“We got chatting and he seemed really nice," she said.
"He was funny and said he liked me. We chatted for about a month. We sent messages on Snapchat too.
“He asked me to go over to meet him and said he would pay for the taxi.
“I felt like I sort of knew him, so I agreed to go. At first he was lovely. It was fun. Then he just changed.
"He damaged my phone so I couldn't contact anyone. Then he attacked me.
“One minute he was okay with me, then he just flipped.
"He attacked me for no reason. I really thought he was going to kill me there in his flat."
Last month he was sentenced to five years in detention and four on licence. 
Emily said: “I don’t think that is justice after what he did to me.
“They should lock him away and never let him out."
Today, Emily is slowly trying to find some normality in her life in the wake of the attack.
“The biggest problem I've got physically is the ligament in my right hand,” she said.
“It got badly damaged as I tried to fend off the blows as he hit me, and kept on hitting me, with the baseball bat until it broke on me.
“I can’t do much for another couple of months.
"I hope that it will heal and then I can start to look for a job.”
Emily has been offered counselling, but said she felt she did not need it.
“I want to just get on with things,” she said. "I haven’t had any nightmares about this, which is good.
“I've been out a couple of times with friends and that helps.
“I don’t feel like I can trust anyone I don’t know properly now."
She added: "I’m not sure how I might feel about meeting another man and going on a date – that’s so far off in the future I can’t even think about it."
Emily's father Richard Harvey said: “My daughter used to be so outgoing, so full of life,” he said.
“She was just a normal 19-year-old. Going out with her friends, having fun. So bright, so lovely.
“Now she spend so much time in her bedroom. She rarely goes out.
“The physical scars will heal, but I'm not so sure that the mental ones will.
“I think she may be forever looking over her shoulder, worrying that something like this might happen again.”
