
# Uyinene Mrwetyana murder: Alleged killer Luyanda Botha faces two rape charges

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Tammy Petersen**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/uyinene-mrwetyana-murder-alleged-killer-luyanda-botha-faces-two-rape-charges-20191105)

Evidence in the State's case against former post office worker Luyanda Botha, accused of the brutal murder of University of Cape Town student Uyinene Mrwetyana, has resulted in him facing a second rape charge, the Western Cape director of public prosecutions said on Tuesday.
Advocate Rodney de Kock, leading the prosecution of Botha, confirmed that the investigation had resulted in a fourth charge being added.

        READ | 
        
          Man arrested for UCT student Uyinene Mrwetyana's disappearance charged with murder, rape
        
      
He declined to elaborate, saying further details would later be revealed in court. The four charges that Botha is now facing are: Murder, two counts of rape, and defeating the ends of justice.
Magistrate Goolam Bawa on Tuesday ruled that Botha could be named as the investigation against him had been completed. He is accused of bludgeoning Mrwetyana to death on August 24.
Police Minister Bheki Cele, at the teenager's funeral in East London, said she had gone to the Clareinch Post Office after operating hours on the day of her murder because Botha had suggested that she come back then.

        Put up a fight
      

        PIC | The Clareinch post office where Uyinene Mrwetyana was raped, killed
      
She was then attacked.
Mrwetyana put up a fight, but lost her footing and fell. Her attacker raped her, but she continued to try and defend herself.
She was then bludgeoned to death with a heavy object, understood to be a scale.
According to Cele, the "perpetrator" confessed to then buying liquor and drinking as he didn't know what to do with her body.
Her remains were found days later in Lingelethu West, burnt and buried in a shallow grave.
De Kock - the head of the National Prosecuting Authority in the Western Cape, who last year made the shortlist for the National Director of Public Prosecutions position - confirmed that the investigation was complete and that the docket had been handed to Botha's legal representative.
