
# Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admits he made Man Utd team selection mistake vs Bournemouth

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:40:18+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ole-gunnar-solskjaer-admits-made-20795574)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has admitted that he got his team selection wrong in Manchester United's defeat to Bournemouth .
The Red Devils suffered their fourth Premier League loss of the season at the Vitality Stadium as Joshua King's inventive flick and volley was the difference between the two sides.
Solskjaer elected for an unchanged starting XI from the team which swatted Norwich aside last weekend against the Cherries.
That saw David de Gea in goal, a back four of Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Harry Maguire, Victor Lindelof and Ashley Young, a midfield of Fred, Scott McTominay and Andreas Pereira with Daniel James, Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford up front.
And the Norwegian thinks that in hindsight he got his decisions wrong, although wouldn't name the players he would have left out.
"Maybe I should have started a couple of others, who knows," Solskjaer said. "I felt we started the game well.
"If you want to be challenging for top four, you need to win games like this."
The Cherries join Crystal Palace , West Ham and Newcastle in beating United this season, and Solskjaer admitted his side were beaten by the better team on the day.
" You are always very down when you lose and considering the form we were in we were hoping to take the three points," Solskjaer told Match of the Day. "It is a step back for us today, but we need to shake it off and go again.
"We could not capitalize on the good start and a moment of magic won the game for them, sometimes you just hold up your hands and say: ‘Well done’.
"Mason Greenwood was unlucky when he hit the post, I saw him scoring those chances more than missing them, but he will come good.
"I thought Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial defended very well against them, but in games like this one it is so important get the first goal and they did it."
