
# Ex-MP Ongoro freed on Sh3mn cash bail after denying charges in Sh48mn fraud case

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:04:19+00:00**

Author: **RACHEAL MBURU**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/ex-mp-ongoro-freed-on-sh3mn-cash-bail-after-denying-charges-in-sh48mn-fraud-case/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 4 – Former Kasarani lawmaker Elizabeth Ongoro and her spouse Ferdinand Masha were Monday freed on Sh3 million cash bail each with an alternative of Sh
        6.5 million after denying fraud in the administration of the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF).
      
The duo denied embezzling public funds amounting to Sh48 million.
ADVERTISEMENT
The two who were charged alongside 13 others for allegedly committing the offense   between May 9, 2008 and December 10, 2012 within Nairobi City County.
The former lawmaker is also accused of engaging in a project without prior planning and fraudulent acquisition of public property.
Ongoro is alleged to have acquired Sh4 million from Kasarani Girl’s School Project Management account being part of the money allocated for the construction of Kasarani Girl’s High School.
Masha and others accused persons are said to have fraudulently acquired public property estimated at Sh4.1 million from the same project account and dealing with suspect property.
The court heard that between May 20, 2009 and November 2010 – being the sole signatory of Accurate Construction and Engineering Works Limited bank account – he received Sh4.1 million from Kasarani CDF, money believed to have been acquired corruptly.
Eight other suspects who were charged last week pleaded afresh after the prosecution amended their charge sheets.
The CDF officials faced several charges including abuse of office, willful failure to comply with the law relating to management of public funds, fraudulent acquisition of public property and conflict of interest.
Ongoro and co-suspects appeared before Anti-corruption Chief Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi.
Post Views: 303
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
