
# New Hampshire's undeclared voters could become 'silent majority' in Dem primary

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:52:58+00:00**

Author: **Rob DiRienzo**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/new-hampshires-undeclared-voters-could-reveal-silent-majority-in-dem-primary)

MANCHESTER, N.H. – They say they're fed up with the partisan dysfunction in Washington – and their votes could be pivotal for Democratic hopefuls.
About 1,500 independent, moderate, and undeclared voters converged on the Problem Solver Convention on Sunday in Manchester, N.H. – with the first-in-the-nation primary a little over three months away.
About 42 percent – a plurality of New Hampshire voters – are registered as undeclared, according to the New Hampshire Secretary of State's voter rolls. Under the state's rules, undeclared voters can choose to vote in either party's primary – meaning there's a potential for a different kind of February surprise.
"There's really a silent majority of people out there who are not partisan and really are yearning for people in Washington to get together," said former Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman, who was a Democrat before becoming an independent during his last term in office. Lieberman, who helped organize the convention as chairman of the organization No Labels, said he is now a registered Democrat.

        
          NEW HAMPSHIRE PRIMARY GETS REAL AS CANDIDATES FLOCK TO FILE BEFORE DEADLINE
        
      
In the 2016 campaign, President Trump gave a stump speech at the Problem Solver Convention. This cycle, presidential candidates Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii, John Delaney, and Republican Bill Weld made their pitch to voters.
