
# Security outside PM Imran's residence beefed up

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:26:57+00:00**

Author: **Our Correspondent**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092583/1-security-outside-pm-imrans-residence-beefed/)

ISLAMABAD: Security outside Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Bani Gala residence has been tightened in the wake of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI-F) chief Maulana Fazalur Rehman’s threat that opposition protestors could ‘arrest’ the premier if he did not hand in resignation after expiry of his two-day ultimatum.
The local administration said it was ready to deal with any situation, adding that the Elite Force and paramilitary Rangers personnel had also been called to guard the capital’s commercial area.
The Ministry of Interior said armoured personnel carriers had been stationed in front of the Parliament House with the deployment of more security personnel in the sensitive areas.
After the threat issued by Fazlur Rehman, the Islamabad administration started barricading the roads leading to prime minister’s Bani Gala house. However, no road has been permanently blocked except those leading to the public gathering. Even the Red Zone is not completely sealed so far.
In view of the Supreme Court’s orders to ensure free movement of citizens, no highway or link roads has been closed for traffic except the routes leading to the venue of Azadi march. However, the security personnel are seen on a high alert outside the check posts and at important venues.
