
# Motorola's foldable Razr looks clamshell as hell in leaks (Update: Even more images)

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:40:07+00:00**

Author: **Jules Wang**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/01/motorola-foldable-razr-leaks/)


        Update 1: 2019/10/31 12:54pm PDTExtra evleaks images
         Update 2: 2019/10/31 3:45pm PDTTwo more from evleaks
         Update 3: 2019/11/01 10:40am PDTSpotted in China
      
Motorola's new RAZR foldable phone is due to go public as a Verizon-exclusive (and you know how Verizon covets exclusives) device in two weeks, but there's been plenty of anticipation as well as a little monetary dread from anxious fans since this thing was quasi-announced to the media in February. We're just now getting our first substantial leak on how it will look — substantively, what size this clamshell will actually be — and how it will be branded.
Leaks blogger Evan Blass published the first wave of images of what we may soon come to know as the razr — all lowercase — this morning.
Mobielkopen then opened the floodgates with more intelligence and images, presumably collected from a reputable source.
The core specifications on this device, which could retail for $1,500, are reported by XDA-Developers to be not spectacular: a Qualcomm Snapdragon 710 with either 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage or 6GB RAM and 128GB storage, plus a 2,730mAh battery. On the outside, we will expect to see an extra-tall, flexible 6.2" OLED interior touch display paired with a smaller exterior, limited-use touch display with a resolution of 600 x 800.
The pictures also indicate that the phone will have a single exterior camera and, perhaps, a physical button on the bottom lip of the interior.
Overall, we may be looking at the flip phone tonic to the Samsung Galaxy Folds and Huawei Mate Xs out there with saucer-size folding phablets and bloated $2,000 price tags. But plenty remains to be seen on whether Motorola can make the razr attractive and if people can perceive its supposed $1,500 value.

          Update 1: 2019/10/31 12:54pm PDT by Jules Wang
        

          Extra evleaks images
        
Blass has published five more images of the flip phone. You can check them out here, here, here, and here.
End of Update

            Update 2: 2019/10/31 3:45pm PDT by Jules Wang
          

            Two more from evleaks
          
Two more images, both, again, from Evan Blass. One of them depicts a pretty important use case for that exterior mini-display: as a selfie mode viewfinder for the camera.
The faucet floweth over.
End of Update

              Update 3: 2019/11/01 10:40am PDT by Jules Wang
            

              Spotted in China
            
A Weibo user spotted someone on the street using what appears to be the new razr in Nanchang, Jiangxi Province.
End of Update
Source: @evleaks (1), (2), Mobielkopen

              Via: 
              XDA-Developers
            
Thanks: Moshe
