
# Tesco slashes price of Cadbury and Mars chocolate advent calendars to just £1

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:01:20+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/tesco-slashes-price-cadbury-mars-20823069)

As much as we want an advent calendar filled full of booze and luxury beauty products, sometimes there's no beating a classic chocolate number.
And now it's November, it's perfectly fine to start stocking up - especially considering that Tesco has just slashed the price of some of their most popular chocolate-filled offerings to just £1.
All the classics from Cadbury and Mars are included, such as Maltesers, Dairy Milk, Galaxy and Mars bar, which are all now 50% off their usual £2 price tag if you're shopping at Tesco.
Available both in store and online, the offer will last up until Tuesday 12th November if you're ordering from the website, meaning it's likely to be available up until Monday 11th in stores.
Meanwhile at Sainsbury's, a Dairy Milk advent calendar costs £1.50, while at Asda, the same calendar costs £2, the same price as Wilko and Ocado.
The most expensive place to pick up a Dairy Milk advent calendar is Waitrose, where it costs a hefty £2.19.
The deal was posted on bargain-hunting community LatestDeals.co.uk, where it was a hit with money-savers. One fan wrote: "Time to go and buy advent calendars love it when these are on special offer, thanks for sharing”, while another said: "What a fantastic find and I love the price. Thank you for sharing.”
Tom Church, co-founder of LatestDeals.co.uk, says: “Christmas is the most expensive time of year, so take advantage of this fantastic 50% off deal and save yourself some money on tasty advent calendars. Don’t forget to check LatestDeals.co.uk every day for new festive discounts and deals!"
As well as the £1 options, Tesco has also cut the price of some other advent calendar editions, with the Maltesers Truffles advent calendar now £2 (was £8), as well as £2 off the Toblerone advent calendar, now £8 (was £10).
