
# Brands Behind Dove Soap And Heinz Beans Are Criticized For Ads On Pornhub

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407184/Brands-Behind-Dove-Soap-And-Heinz-Beans-Are-Criticized-For-Ads-On-Pornhub/)

Prominent brands Kraft Heinz and Unilever, known for household products such as Dove soap, Marmite, Heinz beans and Hellmann’s mayonnaise, have faced backlash for placing advertisements on Pornhub. For instance, Unilever paid for an advert on the adult entertainment site for grooming brand Dollar Shave Club. The ad was intended to be witty, telling potential customers that they would not have to be on Pornhub as much if they use the brand’s “bathroom products.” Dollar Shave Club’s creative director Matt Knapp told the marketing journal Mi3 that placing ads on Pornhub is “not expensive” while the “exposure” and “impressions” are enormous. However, Unilever has since promised to never place ads on Pornhub again after coming under fire from rights groups. Pornhub is rife with “creepshots” of schoolgirls and men engaging in sexual behavior in front of youths on buses, according to The Sunday Times. Advertisement Advertisement Even when the site claims to ban sexual content showing minors who are under 18, the publication’s research has unveiled that some illegal videos remain there for more than three years. For Kraft Heinz, the brand famous for products such as the Heinz beans and Heinz Tomato Ketchup, an ad for frozen food brand Devour was run on the homepage for a whole day. It was part of the #FoodPorn campaign in collaboration with the adult site. A spokesperson told The Sunday Times that it was jumping on the hashtag that became quite popular on Instagram. Kraft Heinz has yet to release a statement distancing from the adult entertainment site.
