
# Black Friday Comes Early For Lenovo Smart Clock

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:08:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/black-friday-lenovo-smart-clock-sale-deal-cheap)

In Best Buy's early Black Friday sale, you can save 50-percent on the Lenovo Smart Clock. Normally, it is sold for $79.99, but today, you can pick one up for just $39.99. That is a steal for this smart clock, which would be great in a bedroom.
This is part of Best Buy's "Black Friday price now" event, where Black Friday prices are available now on some items (actually, hundreds of items). Making this a really good time to pick something up.
The Lenovo Smart Clock has a pretty small, 4-inch display. It does have some massive bezels, but what really makes this great for putting into a bedroom or a bathroom, is the fact that there is no camera inside. So you won't have to be worried about Google potentially spying on you (even though that is not happening).
Advertisement
With the Smart Clock, you get mostly everything that a larger smart display can do. Though there are some limitations, because of the size of this display, and the fact that there's no camera. So you can't do any video chatting on the Smart Clock with Google Duo. You can however, put up a photo album for the background now.
But you still cannot watch video on the Smart Clock, and that might actually be a good thing. Considering the size – it's smaller than your smartphone's display – watching Netflix on this would not be a fun time.
The Lenovo Smart Clock is great for putting into a kids room, or even your own room, as a bedside clock. In fact, that is the exact purpose that Lenovo built this for.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Lenovo Smart Clock from Best Buy's early Black Friday sale for just $39.99 right now, by clicking here. You can also check out Best Buy's other Black Friday sales that are available right now, by clicking here.

        Lenovo Smart Clock - Best Buy - $39
      
