
# New mental health strategy for North Lanarkshire launched

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Wishaw Press, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/wishaw-press/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/new-mental-health-strategy-north-20815572)

A new strategy that aims to “transform mental health and wellbeing by championing and promoting good mental health for all” has been launched.
“Getting It Right for Every Person (GIRFEP) A Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy for Lanarkshire (2019-2024)” is a shared vision developed by Health and Social Care North Lanarkshire, NHS Lanarkshire, South Lanarkshire Health and Social Care Partnership, members of the public, third sector organisations, and staff groups.
All contributions have resulted in a comprehensive strategy; a shared endeavour to deliver a strategic plan to transform mental health and wellbeing in Lanarkshire over the next five years – and beyond.
The strategy – which was unveiled at the Coatbridge campus of New College Lanarkshire– is committed to supporting the delivery of “no health without mental health”.
The executive lead for the strategy on behalf of Lanarkshire, associate nurse director Anne Armstrong, said: “We all have physical health and mental health needs and, therefore, this strategy is for everyone in Lanarkshire.
“Working closely with all key groups and organisations in the development of this strategy has very much been centred on the needs of people of all ages living in Lanarkshire.
“We want this strategy to help people in Lanarkshire talk freely about their mental health and wellbeing as they would any physical ailment, safeguarding their mental health and wellbeing, where possible prevent mental ill heath occurring and, when needed, being able to access support, care and treatment easily.
“I want to thank all those involved who contributed to the design and development of the pioneering strategy to deliver our collective vision and shared aims.”
North Lanarkshire integration joint board chair Avril Osborne added: “Developing this strategy would not have been possible without the collective investment of the many people who contributed to the content.
“If we are to make a difference to people’s lives then working together is essential to deliver the strategy successfully.
“We want to challenge all stigma and discrimination wherever it exists and thus make mental health easier to talk.”
Dr Adam Daly, NHS Lanarkshire’s clinical director of old age psychiatry, said: “This strategy sets out a clear vision for local services both for people with mental illness and for the wider population’s mental health and wellbeing. It is ambitious and inclusive.”
One in four people suffer from a mental illness and critical to the vision and values present in the strategy are the contributions of people with lived experience who have shown courage to share their experience and ideas.
Wellbeing is defined as feeling good and functioning well and is essential to thriving in life.
Kate Bell, head of service change and transformation and strategy programme director, said: “Large scale, system-wide change requires a range of people and organisations to work together towards a shared vision.
“A delivery programme will, I hope, achieve the implementation of our shared ambition across a range of organisations on this extremely important priority topic.”
Councillor Paul Kelly, vice chair of the integration joint board, added: “This ground-breaking strategy places mental health and wellbeing at the very heart of services across the public sector in Lanarkshire.”
Rob Hay, Superintendent and head of partnerships and prevention at Police Scotland’s Lanarkshire division, added: “Improving mental health and wellbeing in Lanarkshire is a challenge for us all.
“Meeting that challenge starts with ending the stigma often felt by those suffering from a mental health issue.”
