
# Poor And Beaten Soundly As The Road Woes Return: What We Learned From FC Barcelona’s Shock La Liga Defeat At Levante

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Sanderson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tomsanderson/2019/11/02/poor-and-beaten-soundly-as-the-road-woes-return-what-we-learned-from-fc-barcelonas-shock-la-liga-defeat-at-levante/)

Beaten by three goals to one, FC Barcelona suffered a shock defeat to mid-table Levante and gave Real Madrid the perfect opportunity to usurp them at the top of La Liga prior to their hosting of Real Betis. Here’s what we learned from the clash.It was a tense opening quarter of an hour for Barcelona
Levante were disruptive and didn’t allow their guests to get into any sort of rhythm. Whereas by the 13th minute Antoine Griezmann had already scored against Eibar last time on the road, there were no chances to speak of for FCB with Enis Bardhi and Borja Mayoral instead giving Clement Lenglet and Gerard Pique problems at the back.

        Things perked up around the 20 minute mark for the visitors
      
Levante had their spell of pressure, but Antoine Griezmann being played in by Semedo and hitting wide shifted the momentum as did another link-up between the pair a few minutes later.

        Nelson Semedo is a genuine option at left-back
      
Filling in for Jordi Alba in the position recently, the Portuguese headed to his usual spot on the right flank when the Spaniard returned from injury. Crocked again against Valladolid on Tuesday however, Semedo, and not the cut Junior Firpo, stepped up yet again. Once more he looked entirely comfortable in the role and as implied above, he was one of Barca’s few sources of creativity in the first half connecting well with Antoine Griezmann.

        Griezmann was the only man on the front line who looked like scoring in the opening half hour
      
Played in twice by Semedo as mentioned, Lionel Messi set the Frenchman up on 31 minutes forcing a save from Aiton Fernandez. As per, though, the World Cup winner could be found in his own penalty area and mucking in defensively on many an occasion.

        It was the Griezmann-Semedo connection that allowed Barça to make a much needed breakthrough
      
Griezmann dummied Arthur’s pass, meaning could Semedo charge through before being brought down foolishly by Jorge Miramon. As a result, Valverde’s men were awarded their first penalty of the season while VAR did not notice Griezmann offside earlier on in the move.

        Messi converted to score his fifth of the 2019/2020 Liga, but as per usual another series of stats accompanied the strike
      
It was also his 10th overall at this ground and the 500th of his career with his left foot.

        Suarez was brought off in the first half
      
Worringly, El Pistolero came off with a knock in the 41st minute. Replaced by Carles Perez, let’s see if he will be available for the Champions League and La Liga hostings of Slavia Prague and Celta Vigo before the international break.

        This allowed Griezmann to move into his centre-forward position
      
One that he much prefers over the left-wing role and enjoyed great success with for France and Atletico Madrid, he almost provided for Messi immediately after being transferred to the middle.

        Griezmann gave the ball away cheaply and dangerously after the interval
      
As deep as right back at the beginning of the second half, Griezmann misplaced a pass in his own 18-yarder but it was not punished.

        Barça started the second half as disjointed as the first
      
Rather than being as intensley pressured, this was their own doing through a slew of misplaced passes borne out of slopiness and a lack of communcation. Some players appeared fatigued.

        This allowed Levante to equalise
      
It was a poor clearance from Pique. Levante caught Barcelona out and flat footed at the back when Morales found Jose Campaña to equalise in the 61st minute.

        Barcelona were hit by two goals in two minutes
      
Smelling blood, Levante pressed on. Goalscorer Campaña had acres of space and found Mayoral to smash home after a quick turn and send the Estadi Ciutat de València wild.

        Then nearly a third
      
Morales hit over the bar on a prompt move after the second that put Levante ahead. Barcelona were in all kinds of trouble.

        A deflected shot in the 68th through the champions deeper into their nightmare
      
Replacing Vidal, Busquets got a foot to Nemanja Radoja’s volley after a limp headed clearance. Levante had scored three in seven minutes from their only three shots on target all game until that point.

        Messi almost grabbed a consolation
      
The Argentine needed to force the issue and had a little luck on his rampage forward to make it 3-2 with 15 minutes remaining. Shortly after, Griezmann, who as noted was offside in the build-up to the first, was found to have impeded a second time and the scoreboard was rolled back a digit.

        The cherry could have been put on top of Levante’s heroic triumph
      
Not that it took anything away from their fantastic afternoon, but Levante almost netted a fourth when carving their victims up in the 94th minute on a wide open counter attack.

        Barcelona’s road woes have resurfaced
      
This was their third defeat of the season away from home. On Sunday, the pages of Catalonia’s two big sports dailies will undoubtedly be flooded with scathing critcism and talk of crisis.
Save for Messi, who still didn’t have his best afternoon by any stretch of the imagination, all of Barcelona’s big stars were poor. As part of recurring themes, the midfield was overrun, their passing game was either off or non-existent and the defence looked vulnerable while leaking goals.
A winning streak of seven games is done with and it has to be questioned whether Barcelona were ever that convincing throughout it as a team. Without Lionel Messi’s individual brilliance and littany of goals and assists, where would Ernesto Valverde’s side be at this moment in time?
Indeed, this was a third loss in La Liga but the first with the five-time Ballon d’Or winner in the first XI since his extraordinary return from injury.
Serious questions must be asked prior to two vital clashes that precede the international break. Thankfully for the Blaugrana, they will both be played at their fortress Camp Nou.
