
# Kerry Katona can 'barely stand straight' amid fears she has endometriosis

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:55:45+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kerry-katona-can-barely-stand-20812651)

Kerry Katona has revealed she is suffering from intense pain and that he "can barely stand up straight."
The former pop singer, 39, who was rushed in to hospital last month with a mystery illness has discussed her health and fears she has endometriosis - a condition where tissue similar to the lining of the womb starts to grow in other places, such as the ovaries and fallopian tubes.
Writing in her New! magazine column, out this week, Kerry shared: "You may have seen me out and about looking very uncomfortable - it's because I'm still in such awful pain with my back. I can barely stand up straight. I'm sick of crying about it, but it's really restricting me.
"I'm going to a clinic later this month to see a gynae specialist, but early indications suggest it's endometriosis, which can take years to diagnose."
It comes after Kerry was taken away to hospital with a mystery illness.
The Celebs Go Dating star, took to social media to share a montage of snaps from her hospital bed in October.
In the photographs, the songstress posed with a drip in her arm while she led down in her hospital bed.
The Celebrity Big Brother star kept her fans informed about her A&E trip as she revealed she was still waiting to hear for news from doctors.
She wrote "Still in hospital" before updating her fans with "Still in!!! No news!".
Kerry was supported by her boyfriend Ryan Mahoney when she headed to A&E.
Her love didn't leave her bedside as he was seen reclining in a chair in a sweet snap.
She gushed over her love as she was delighted to have the company during her hospital visit.
Kerry added: "Bless him! Keeping me company."
She didn't divulge the reason why she had taken the trip to the hospital with her admirers.
It comes after the star turned to weight loss jabs to curb her appetite and help her shed the pounds.
The blonde bombshell has been flaunting her incredible weight loss on her social media account.
Kerry is a mother of five children and her youngest is five-year-old Dylan-Jorge whom she shares with her late ex-husband George Kay.
Kerry is also mum to Molly and Lily-Sue, from her first marriage to Brian McFadden. She divorced the Westlife singer in 2004 after two years of marriage.
The former Atomic Kitten singer also shares Heidi, ten, and Max, nine, from her relationship with Mark Croft.
After her past heartbreak, Kerry has now found love with new boyfriend Ryan.
