
# ‘Harry Potter’ star Emma Watson says she isn’t single, calls it ‘self-partnered’

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:12:53+00:00**

Author: **Julius Young**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/harry-potter-emma-watson-single-self-partnered)

Emma Watson is opening up about her life as she approaches her 30th birthday.
The former “Harry Potter” star spoke candidly in an interview with British Vogue about the “tough” year she’s had because she “had all these ideas” about where she would be at this stage of her life.
“I was like, ‘Why does everyone make such a big fuss about turning 30? This is not a big deal,'" she told the magazine for their December cover issue. “Cut to 29, and I’m like, ‘Oh my God, I feel so stressed and anxious. And I realize it’s because there is suddenly this bloody influx of subliminal messaging around. If you have not built a home, if you do not have a husband, if you do not have a baby, and you are turning 30, and you’re not in some incredibly secure, stable place in your career, or you’re still figuring things out… There’s just this incredible amount of anxiety.”

        
          ALLISON MACK SEEMINGLY TRIED TO RECRUIT EMMA WATSON FOR ALLEGED SEX CULT
        
      
Watson said she struggles with the pressures of securing a perfect life and the same goes for her love life. The “Little Woman” actress said she sees no downside to being single as she approaches 30. She even has a term for people who are happy just being in a relationship with themselves and not committing to one person.

        
          EMMA WATSON JOKES SHE NEEDS PROOFREADER AFTER SHE DEBUTS FEMINIST TATTOO WITH GRAMMATICAL ERROR
        
      
“I am dating, as in not one specific person, but I am going on dates ... My friends are really good at setting me up,” Watson explained. “Even things that haven't worked out romantically, some of my best friends are people I've gotten set up on a date with."
"I never believed the whole ‘I’m happy single’ spiel,” she added. “I was like, ‘This is totally spiel.’ It took me a long time, but I’m very happy [being single]. I call it 'being self-partnered.'"
