
# Christophe Berra launches Craig Levein defence as Hearts skipper slams moronic fan graffiti

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Euan McLean, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/euan-mclean/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/christophe-berra-launches-craig-levein-20784188)

It's fair to say yesterday wasn’t the finest day in Hearts’ history.
It started with the daylight highlighting the desecration of the club crest outside Tynecastle with graffiti calling for Craig Levein’s head.
And ended with the moron who did it getting his wish.
Christophe Berra was sickened by the first episode and will be hugely disappointed to see his boss – a Hearts man to the core – axed, even if results ultimately made it a decision that had to be taken.
The Jambos skipper was at Hampden on Betfred Cup media duties just before news of Levein’s fate was made public but Berra’s frustration was evident even as his gaffer was clinging onto his position.
And his contempt for the faceless thug who daubed “Levein Out” on the mosaic titled pattern of the club’s iconic badge in the hours after the loss to St Johnstone sent them tumbling to joint bottom of the Premiership was even more obvious.
That the culprits ultimately got their wish as Hearts owner Ann Budge pulled the trigger on the under fire boss, Berra reckons the vitriol towards Levein went too far.
He said: “It’s sad really. We don’t know who did it – it could have been a 60-year-old man or a 12-year-old kid.
“Yeah, they might think they’re Billy Big Balls at the time doing it but unfortunately there’s people like that and there’s nothing we can do about it. That’s society.
“I’m sure there’ll be CCTV footage. If that’s what the club means to some people and that’s the way they want to express it there’s nothing we can do.”
With the club statement emerging minutes after the captain’s departure supporters were deprived of Berra’s opinion on the loss of a man who did much to help him build his career.
But his words about Levein still stand in the bitter context of the manager’s departure as the team he leaves behind must focus on a massive semi-final showdown with Rangers on Sunday.
 
Berra said: “The manager’s been affiliated with the club for a long time. He was a good player for the club, managed them for a first spell then went away and came back. He’s got the club’s best interests at heart.
“He brought me through when I was a youngster and gave me my chance. I moved on and then when I came back he was involved in the club. The manager, one-on one, he’s a good guy.
“There’s split opinions amongst the fans but that’s going to happen, no matter who you are – if Pep Guardiola starts losing games week in, week out, it would be the same. You just need to be thick skinned and get on with it.
“We need to try and get through this tough spell but the record speaks for itself. It’s not nice but the players are getting stick as well. We’re not daft.
“The table and the stats don’t lie. We need to roll up our sleeves.”
The Jambos will be underdogs against Gers despite dominating their last encounter when in the 1-1 at Tynecastle.
But then big games like these haven’t been Hearts’ problem this campaign, it’s the performances against the smaller teams where they’ve been miles off the pace.
Berra said: “Inconsistency is the story of our season.
“We raise our game against Aberdeen, Hibs, Celtic and Ranger but against so-called lesser teams, we fail to take the game by the scruff of the neck.
“I wish I could put my finger on why but some players will perform better in bigger games. You need to be consistent, seven or eight out of 10 every week.
 
“It’s different at Tynecastle against the Old Firm and Hibs. They might not show as much respect, they might come for you and leave space, which might suit us.
“No disrespect but Dundee or Hamilton might sit and be hard to beat. We’ve struggled against that. We haven’t found a formula to break them down.
“We need to stick together and pull through it. There is no shying away from it.”
