
# Gauteng social development MEC Thuliswa Nkabinde-Khawe dies

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Nicole McCain**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/gauteng-social-development-mec-thuliswa-nkabinde-khawe-dies-20191102)

The Gauteng MEC of Social Development, Thuliswa Nkabinde-Khawe, has died. 
Gauteng Premier David Makhura confirmed on Saturday that Nkabinde-Khawe died in hospital on Friday evening.
"I appointed MEC Nkabinde-Khawe as part of team Gauteng, to be the political head of the Social Development portfolio," he said in a statement.
Nkabinde-Khawe "was passionate about the issues affecting the poor, children, women, the elderly and people living with disability as the most vulnerable section of the population", said Makhura.
He described Nkabinde-Khawe as being at the forefront of fighting gender-based violence.
"I would like to send my heartfelt condolences to the family, comrades and friends of MEC Nkabinde-Khawe. MEC Nkabinde-Khawe will be dearly missed by all of us in the Executive Council as we work to grow Gauteng together."
Nkabinde-Khawe had been a member of Gauteng Provincial Legislature since 2009.
The ANC in Gauteng has expressed “shock and sadness” at Nkabinde-Khawe’s death.
“It was her passion for community service that saw her taking up the cause of the downtrodden through her involvement in various formations,” said ANC spokesperson Bones Modise.
Nkabinde-Khawe was also the Provincial Secretary of the South African National Civic Organization (SANCO) in Gauteng.
