
# White House hopeful Elizabeth Warren outlines $20 trillion healthcare plan

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:06:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/world/white-house-hopeful-elizabeth-warren-outlines-20-trillion-healthcare-plan-961285.html)

US presidential hopeful Elizabeth Warren has proposed $20 trillion in federal spending over the next decade to provide healthcare to every American without raising taxes on the middle class.
The details of Ms Warren’s “Medicare for All” plan aim to quell criticism that the Massachusetts Democrat and presidential candidate has been vague about how she would pay for her sweeping proposal.
Her refusal to say until now whether she would impose new taxes on the middle class, as fellow progressive White House hopeful Bernie Sanders has said he would, had become untenable and made her a target in recent presidential debates.
However, her detailed proposal was quickly attacked by her moderate rivals, including former vice president Joe Biden.
In a 20-page online post, Ms Warren said her plan would call on employers to transfer to the government almost all the $8.8 trillion she estimates they would otherwise spend on private insurance for employees.
“We can generate almost half of what we need to cover Medicare for All just by asking employers to pay slightly less than what they are projected to pay today, and through existing taxes,” she wrote.
Companies with fewer than 50 employees that do not already sponsor coverage would be exempted from the proposal.
In a nod to unions whose support will be key in the Democratic primary, Ms Warren said that employers already offering health benefits under collective bargaining agreements will be allowed to reduce how much they send to federal coffers — provided they pass those savings on to employees.

        Johnson rejects Trump’s advice to form General Election pact with Farage
      
Democrats have spent the better part of three decades debating the proper role of government in healthcare, and the complicated politics surrounding the issue quickly resurfaced after Ms Warren released her proposal.
Mr Biden, who favours building on the Affordable Care Act, criticised Ms Warren’s plan for eliminating private insurance coverage and said it still amounts to a tax increase on workers.
