
# African Star Aims Dig At Media Over Neymar Treatment

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:33:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/african-star-aims-dig-at-media-over-neymar-treatment/666865)

African star Idrissa Gueye came to the defence of Paris Saint-Germain teammate Neymar during a recent press conference in France, seemingly aiming a dig at the media in the process.

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
The Senegal international, who joined PSG from Everton at the beginning of the season, was speaking ahead of the club's UEFA Champions League clash against Club Brugge on Wednesday when he was asked about the return of Neymar to the squad.
Gueye, who had earlier provided a cold reaction to questions about PSG's early-season form, responded with a subtle dig at the journalists who were present.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"He (Neymar) was smiling," Gueye said, as reported by PSG Talk.
"Since I arrived, I have always seen him smiling. It doesn't change anything for me. I don't know about you as journalists, but he is a great player, everybody knows that."
The 30-year-old's response follows criticism Neymar has received from PSG fans and sections of the media after he publicly tried to force a return to former club FC Barcelona during the latest transfer window.

        
          Read: Neymar Punishment For Slapping Fan Revealed
        
      
Gueye is expected to feature in his side's tie against Percy Tau's Brugge after recovering from a hamstring strain.
