
# Essex Police 'speak with fugitive Ronan Hughes via telephone' amid manhunt over 39 lorry deaths

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:52:25+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/essex-police-speak-fugitive-ronan-17183350)

Essex Police have revealed that they have spoken by telephone to fugitive Ronan Hughes who they want to question over the deaths of 39 people found in the back of a lorry in Essex.
The news comes amid heightened concerns over people smuggling into the UK, following the discovery of 39 bodies in the back of a refrigerated lorry in Grays, Essex last week.
It is not yet known when the victims entered the trailer, but it arrived at Zeebrugge in Belgium on October 22, and reached Purfleet in Essex at around 12.30am the following day.
Just over an hour later police were called to the Waterglade Industrial Park on Eastern Avenue in Grays where the bodies of 31 men and eight women had been discovered.
Mo Robinson, 25, of Craigavon, Northern Ireland, appeared at Chelmsford Magistrates' Court on Monday charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration, and money laundering.
Essex Police are also looking for Ronan Hughes, 40, and his brother Christopher, 34, both from from Armagh in Northern Ireland, who are suspected of manslaughter and human trafficking.
Twelve migrants have been found alive in the back of a refrigerated lorry in Belgium.
 
Local media reported that the men had crawled into the back of the vehicle near Antwerp on Tuesday, prompting the driver to contact police.
A spokeswoman for the Belgian federal police said that traffic officers had gone to check the lorry, which was carrying fruit and vegetables, and found 11 Syrians and one Sudanese man.
They were taken to a police office in Antwerp and are now being dealt with by immigration officials.
