
# England suffer Rugby World Cup Final heartbreak with defeat to South Africa

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:54:34+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/breaking-england-suffer-rugby-world-20793499)

England suffered World Cup Final heartbreak against South Africa again, being comprehensively defeated by Rassie Erasmus' side in Japan.
After busting the All Blacks myth with a dominant display in the semi-finals, Eddie Jones' men faced the two-time winners in Yokohama, arriving as favourites and looking to avenge their final defeat of 12 years ago.
But the Springboks, an unflashy yet ruthlessly efficient, powerful team, were eager to end English hopes in the same way they had finished Wales bid six days previously.
And a side that have been often criticised in Japan for the coldness of their displays, saved their best for last, doing to England what the Red Rose had done to New Zealand in the semi-finals, running out 32-12 winners and proving a class apart.
For 80 minutes, the International Stadium looked more like Twickenham, such was the sea of white shirts as travelling England fans packed out the stands.
One of those was Prince Harry , watching on alongside Fumihito, Crown Prince Akishino and Prince Albert II of Monaco, the Duke of Sussex having publicly praised Japan's hosting of the competition pre-game.
Unfortunately, on the field, England fell to the joint second-heaviest defeat in Rugby World Cup final history, second best in almost every department as South Africa landed the Webb Ellis Trophy for the third time.
 
England suffered an early blow, with Kyle Sinckler - an injury doubt heading into the clash - having to depart after less than three minutes.
The 26 year-old prop was knocked out as he attempted to make a tackle on South Africa winger Makazole Mapimpi - only to collide with the shoulder of Maro Itoje instead.
Referee Jerome Garces immediately called a halt to play and Sinckler eventually walked from the field after medical treatment, being replaced by Dan Cole.
 
Handre Pollard, whose flawless kicking propelled South Africa through their semi-final at Wales' expense, kicked a ninth minute penalty to open the scoring, having already missed a long-range effort prior to Sinckler's injury.
Sinckler was duly followed off the field by South Africa duo Bongi Mbonambi and Lood de Jager, both needing head injury assessments; a war of attrition was promised pre-game, and the start was duly as brutal as predicted.
The Red Rose dug their way back into the game and levelled after 22 minutes, captain Owen Farrell firing between the posts from close range.
But England were jittery and duly made a mess of the restart, offering up a scrum in their own half and handing South Africa a penalty.
While England were anxious, Pollard had settled into his stride and the Montpellier man duly fired over with ease to restore the Springboks' lead.
England produced an intense period of pressure after the half hour mark, battering away at the South Africa line. Erasmus' side resolutely held out, but offered up another penalty, with Farrell finding his mark from close range.
At the break however, England found themselves six points behind.
They were struggling to compete with the sheer physicality of the South Africa scrum and produced unforced errors, allowing the unflappable Pollard to fire two more penalties over.
England began the second period with another spell of sustained possession, but it lacked incision, with South Africa's Faf de Klerk producing a monstrous defensive performance for his side.
And after giving away another penalty, again having lost out in the scrum, Jones' men were once more punished by Pollard, kicking from 40 metres to make it 15-6 with 35 minutes remaining.
"South Africa have got England in a vice-like grip at the scrum" declared 2003 World Cup winner Paul Grayson on commentary for the BBC.
As England fans sung "swing low, sweet chariot", Jones shuffled his pack, firstly bringing on Joe Marler for Mako Vunipola to try to finally make some headway in the scrum, and then replacing George Ford with Henry Slade.
Instantly, it reaped rewards.
From a lineout, a South Africa knock-on handed England their first scrum penalty of the encounter, Farrell duly reducing the arrears.
Another penalty was awarded moments later, England finally making in-roads in the power battle, but from 45 metres, Farrell's effort drifted agonisingly wide of the posts.
Within moments, Pollard had punished Farrell for his miss to take the lead back up to nine points.
The two sides exchanged penalties once more around the hour mark, but this time while Farrell edged his effort just inside the left-hand post, Pollard shanked his horribly, getting neither the required direction nor distance.
However, Marler's impact had abated and England were looking ragged again, and with 14 minutes remaining their dreams were all but crushed by Makazole Mapimpi and the game's first try.
The lightning quick wing chipped brilliantly down the left to break clear and when the ball bounced kindly to the onrushing Lukhanyo Am, he reversed a pass back into Mapimpi who eased over the line untouched.
It was a brilliant, clever try from a side who have been criticised throughout the competition for a lack of flair and creativity; Pollard fired over the conversion to hand his side a 13-point advantage.
Seven minutes from time, Cheslin Kolbe eased past a tired Farrell challenge, notching his third try of the competition and England's race was run.
"We weren't good enough," admitted George Ford. "Congratulations to South Africa, I thought they executed their plan brilliantly.
"They just did a job on us today."
Siya Kolisi stepped up and became South Africa's first black captain to lift the trophy; it was little more than he and they deserved, a Far East masterclass continuing their 100 per cent record in finals.
