
# Mesut Ozil's reaction to Jose Mourinho when he called him out for only giving 50 per cent

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mesut-ozils-reaction-jose-mourinho-20763517)

Mesut Ozil stood his ground and glared at Jose Mourinho when he called him out for only giving 50 per cent in a game for Real Madrid.
That's according to the German, who played under Mourinho in Spain, before eventually signing for Arsene Wenger's Arsenal back in 2013.
Ozil has fallen out of favour at Arsenal under new boss Unai Emery, and was hooked in the second half of the defeat by Liverpool on Thursday.
The Carabao Cup clash, which Liverpool won 5-4 on penalties following a 5-5 draw, was Ozil's third appearance of the season in all competitions.
Emery has hinted that Ozil doesn't work hard enough for his team, and the Spaniard would rather play the likes of tenacious midfielder Matteo Guendouzi.
Emery is under pressure to start getting things right at Arsenal, with Mourinho being linked with his job in recent weeks.
Many believe Mourinho could inject a new lease of life into Ozil. But Mourinho, like Emery, had problems with the World Cup winner when he managed him.
Here's what Ozil wrote about a confrontation he had with Mourinho when the Portuguese called on him to work harder at Real Madrid.
"You think two beautiful passes are enough. You think you're so good that 50 per cent is enough," Ozil claims Mourinho told him, in his book.
"He pauses. Stares at me with his dark brown eyes. I stare back. Like two boxers at the stare-down before the first round.
"He shows no emotion. Just waits for a response from me. How much I hate him right now. And I love Mourinho actually."
Ozil added that Mourinho said: "Oh, are you giving up now? You're such a coward.
"What do you want? To creep under the beautiful, warm shower? Shampoo your hair? To be alone? Or do you want to prove to your fellow players, the fans out there, and me, what you can do."
