
# Reports | Soumya Sarkar and unidentified Bangladesh player vomited on field during chase

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:20:55+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/reports-soumya-sarkar-and-unidentified-bangladesh-player-vomited-on-field-during-chase?utm_medium=rss)


        In the wake of Bangladesh's upset over team India in the first T20I in Delhi, it is being reported that Soumya Sarkar and another unidentified Bangladesh player vomited on the field during the chase. The match carried on despite hazardous air conditions in the capital city of Delhi post Diwali.
      
Ahead of the first T20I between India and Bangladesh, thanks to the poor quality of air in Delhi which saw the air quality index level reach hazardous levels of over 500, there were cries for the match to be called off citing player safety. However, after the BCCI reassured that there would be no imminent danger to the players' health and after the air quality index miraculously improved to around 262 at 6 PM IST on the match day, the game went on without attracting further trouble and on the outset, looked like everything was fine. 
However, it is now being reported by ESPNCricinfo that two Bangladesh cricketers, Soumya Sarkar and one other unidentified player, vomited on the field during the second innings whilst chasing. This is also the second such instance of players vomiting on the field courtesy unhealthy air conditions in the Indian capital city of Delhi, with the first one occurring two years ago when several Sri Lankan players sported masks, vomited and even left the field due to the poor quality of air. 
But despite the trouble, the Tigers cruised to victory thanks to an unbeaten 60 from the experienced Mushfiqur Rahim, who himself stated that he was unaffected by the conditions and his only focus was on the Indian bowlers. BCCI President Sourav Ganguly also lauded the players for playing the game under "tuff conditions" in the city. 
