
# Boris Johnson Asks Trump To Lift Scotch Whisky Tariffs

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Felipe Schrieberg**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/felipeschrieberg/2019/11/07/boris-johnson-asks-trump-to-lift-scotch-whisky-tariffs/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

It seems U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson likes his whisky served without tariffs. Transcripts from a phone call between Johnson and President Donald Trump reveal not only a bid to lift the punishing 25% tariffs issued last month on Scotch whisky imports into the U.S., but also how Johnson’s relationship with Trump may end up harming him with the upcoming U.K. general election to be held on December 12.
The British press, including the Telegraph and the Evening Standard, have written that the phone discussion included lifting the tariffs on British goods issued a month ago, singling out single malt Scotch whisky in particular (the U.S. single malt market is worth $463 million) and discouraging potential future tariffs on car parts made in the European Union.
This is in line with what was officially reported by the U.K. government in its readout about the call.
However, the New York Times highlights a completely different narrative about the call issued from the White House, which doesn’t mention either cars or whisky but a pledge to negotiate “a robust bilateral free trade agreement once the United Kingdom leaves the European Union.”
Mark Landler’s piece notes that while it’s not unheard of to have such different accounts of these kinds of leader-to-leader calls, the divergence in the official readouts about what was covered draws attention to Boris Johnson’s need to distance himself from the American president with a general election on the horizon. Trump is on the whole deeply unpopular in the U.K. and hasn’t done himself any favors by making efforts to influence election results there.
Where Johnson was previously happy to pal around with the President, confirming that the U.K. is looking to run into Trump’s arms could be politically radioactive in the coming weeks leading to the election, which helps explain diverging reports about the exchange.
The call between the two world leaders also illustrates how Scotch whisky has found itself becoming more intertwined with international politics. Whether becoming the “face” of the tariffs or trying to avoid drawing too much attention to itself with Brexit (on the whole the industry supported Johnson’s predecessor Theresa May’s deal to avoid the clear danger of a “no-deal” Brexit), the industry would on the whole prefer to be left alone, free to keep exporting its delicious drinks around the world.
However, despite the two calls he’s made to Trump asking for the tariffs to be removed (the first one was a month ago), Johnson is perhaps not the ideal protector of Scotch whisky, even though he’s the one that the industry must currently rely on.
His pursuit of a risky political strategy to push through his Brexit deal raises the very serious prospect of a no-deal situation that is anathema to the industry. When he was foreign minister under Theresa May, he was also part of a government that was potentially willing to relax legal whisky standards as part of a free trade deal with the U.S. as well. That concern will be further highlighted if trade negotiations begin in earnest as the Johnson government would clearly like to do.  
On a much less serious note, if he was truly serious about eliminating the new tariffs of which Scotch single malt is just one of many affected products, Johnson highlighting Scotch perhaps is not the best idea, given Trump’s 2012 tangle with the Glenfiddich distillery.
In any case, expect Scotch whisky and its $6 billion market to keep hitting geopolitical headlines, as the U.K. potentially faces a complete upheaval in the way it conducts international trade.
