
# Wada is to look at athletes who trained under banned Alberto Salazar

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:24:58+00:00**

Author: **PA Media**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/04/wada-look-athletes-trained-under-alberto-salazar)


        • Mo Farah trained at Salazar’s Nike Oregon Project • Craig Reedie: ‘We are at the start of the process’
      
The World Anti-Doping Agency president, Sir Craig Reedie, says his organisation will “look at” athletes who trained under the banned coach Alberto Salazar. The 61-year-old was found guilty of doping violations this year after a four-year investigation by the United States Anti-Doping Agency.
The Nike Oregon Project, where Salazar worked with his athletes, has since been closed down. The International Olympic Committee had called on Wada to investigate NOP athletes, and Reedie said: “In this case we have the right to look at the accusations against Salazar but in particular we would be interested to see if there are any onward issues as far as the athletes are concerned. We are at the very start of that process because we have to get the files from the US, but we will look at it..”
The NOP was established in 2001 and Sir Mo Farah, a four-time Olympic champion, trained with Salazar between 2011 and 2017. Farah released a statement immediately after the confirmation of Salazar’s ban which read: “I left the Nike Oregon Project in 2017 but, as I’ve always said, I have no tolerance for anyone who breaks the rules or crosses a line. A ruling has been made and I’m glad there has finally been a conclusion.” Farah has never failed a drugs test and strongly denies ever breaking anti-doping regulations. Salazar has said he will appeal against the Usada ruling.
