
# Master Arduino with this starter kit and course bundle, now 85% off

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:30:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/master-arduino-starter-kit-and-course-bundle-now-85?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

Nothing embodies the Internet of Things revolution like Arduino—a fully-customizable platform that allows you to build everything from talking robots to full-fledged computers in the comfort of your own home.
The Complete Arduino Starter Kit & Course Bundle will teach you everything you need to know about this increasingly powerful tool, and it’s available for 85% off at just $89.99.
Complete with an Arduino board and six courses led by industry experts, this training will show you how to build games, electronics and much more through easy-to-follow lessons.
After an introduction to the basics, you’ll learn how to create apps that can automate a wide range of tasks throughout the home, how to create electronics modules that utilize LCDs, how to build devices that can detect temperature, and much more.
There’s even an entire module that’s dedicated to showing you how to build a fully-functional robot that can avoid obstacles on its own.
Embrace the Internet of Things revolution with The Complete Arduino Starter Kit & Course Bundle for just $89.99—85% off its usual price for a limited time.

        Prices are subject to change.
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        New patch The November 2019 security patch improves the Pixel 4's 90Hz display Google is pushing out its November 2019 security patch to Pixel devices, with one of the highlights being improvements to the Pixel 4's Smooth Display feature.
      

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        How it should be Which wireless headphones charge via USB-C? Want to buy a pair of headphones that charges with the same cable as your phone? Here are all the best headphones we could find that support USB-C charging.
      
