
# Gossip Girl Is Returning to TV and Now Also Vulture Festival LA

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Anne Victoria Clark**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/11/gossip-girl-joshua-safran-vulture-festival-2019.html)

Hey, Upper East Siders who live in L.A.! Vulture here, and in case you hadn’t heard, the CW’s Gossip Girl is being rebooted by the just and loving media gods whom we are all happy to serve (a.k.a. HBO Max). If you know us, you know there is simply no way we could let a Vulture Festival come and go without celebrating this, as this is the show we once declared genius and also stated, completely calmly, that it is the Greatest Show of All Time. (It also kind of predicted the future, so there’s that.) That’s why this Sunday, November 10, Vulture’s very own Hunter Harris is sitting down with executive producer and writer of the original series Joshua Safran to take a fond look back at the much beloved episode “Hi, Society.” They’ll also talk about Safran’s upcoming musical drama Soundtrack, and of course, we’ll ply him with drinks and demand he tell us what’s to come in this 2020 Gossip Girl reboot. It’ll be fine, don’t worry. Just go ahead and get tickets here or at VultureFestival.com.
And if you somehow need even more drama in your weekend, we’ve also just added Nick Viall to our game night with Bachelor Nation. Just last week we announced Tony Hale is also hosting a special Forky screening, and there’s still room for you to join our sneak peek of the final season of The Man in the High Castle or hang out with the cast of Superstore. You know you love us! XOXO, Vulture.
