
# Kyle Sinckler sickeningly knocked unconscious in Rugby World Cup final between England and South Africa

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:35:02+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/rugby/kyle-sinckler-sickeningly-knocked-unconscious-17189195)

The Rugby World Cup final saw worrying scenes emerge just minutes into the clash  between England and South Africa today.
Fans flocked to social media to send their well-wishes to Kyle Sinckler after the England star was knocked unconscious.
The English prop went in for a tackle inside the opening 120 seconds of the clash in Japan.
But Sinckler, who went to tackle with Maro Itoje, was left felled by the attempt to stop Springbok Makazole Mapimpi.
The England prop went down inside just two minutes into the game in Yokohama.
He was left injured after Itoje's arm swung round and collided with him.
Sinckler, a Harlequins star, dropped to the floor and lay motionless on the ground as several medics rushed to his aid, resulting in the game being halted for several minutes.
As concerned teammates stood around waiting for an update, TV commentators explained that physios were explaining to Sinckler that he had been knocked out.
 
As he moved his legs and came around, this was greeted with cheers by tens of thousands of fans inside the stadium, who applauded when he sat up on the pitch.
After a few minutes down, he managed to walk off the pitch himself, with a permanent England change then made when Dan Coles coming on in the front row.
Gary Lineker sympathised with the rugby star, tweeting: "What a shame for Kyle Sinckler. To go off so early in a World Cup final must be heartbreaking."
It capped an unconvincing start by Eddie Jones’ men who have been taken aback by the ferocity of the Springboks’ opening.
Handre Pollard kicked them into the lead on 10 minutes as Dan Cole came on to replace Sinckler.
