
# Beat your Monday blues with THIS throwback picture shared by Gauri Khan

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:17:56+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/beat-your-monday-blues-with-this-throwback-picture-shared-by-gauri-khan/articleshow/71885540.cms)

Shah Rukh Khan celebrated his 54th birthday on the 2nd of November and the day was no less than a grand event for the fans as the Badshah became the first Bollywood star to have his name displayed on Burj Khalifa. The star also made some announcements about his next release which will happen in 2020. SRK very well knows how to keep his fans happy and does every possible thing for them. Not only fans, Shah is also a family man and shares a great bond with them.
Despite of being busy through out the year, the superstar makes sure he takes out some time to spend quality time with his wife and three beautiful kids. Accordingly, they often enjoy vacations and short getaways which caught major eye balls. Pictures from their vacay are specially awaited by SRK fans. One of the pictures from their past Europe vacation has been shared by Gauri today.
Gauri posted this heart-warming throwback memory on her Instagram. She beautifully captioned the picture as, "Squeezing memories into one frame..."
In the picture we can see SRK and Gauri standing at the extreme ends with their three kids posing in the middle. This picture is surely giving major family goals and are compelling us to pack our bags and take off for a nice vacation. Suhana, AbRam and Aryan look stunning in the picture while SRK and Gauri look beautiful as always. This is one of the RARE pictures where we can spot the entire family in one frame and so is Gauri's caption for the picture.
