
# Rory McIlroy Among Two To Reach $50 Million In PGA Tour Earnings With Win In China

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erik Matuszewski**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikmatuszewski/2019/11/04/mcilroy-among-two-to-reach-50-million-in-pga-tour-earnings-with-his-win-in-china/)

Rory McIlroy joined a select group with his playoff victory at the World Golf Championships-HSBC Champions: $50 million in career PGA TOUR earnings. McIlroy pocketed $1.745 million with his win at Sheshan Invitational, pushing his career earnings to $51.03 million – the eighth-most all-time.
“To practice hard and to do all the right things, and to see it pay off like this and get wins like this, makes it all worthwhile,” McIlroy said after his fourth win in his past 15 starts.
The 30-year-old McIlroy wasn’t alone in reaching the $50 million milestone in China either. Sergio Garcia collected $52,875 with a tie for 53rd place, but it was enough to put him in 9th place all-time, $223 more than Matt Kuchar.
Together, McIlroy and Garcia still fall well short of the player who holds the No. 1 spot on the PGA TOUR’s all-time earnings list: Tiger Woods, with almost $120.46 million.
Phil Mickelson is second, with $90.76 million, followed by Vijay Singh ($71.216 million), Jim Furyk ($71.177 million), Dustin Johnson ($61.756 million), Justin Rose ($53.564 million) and Adam Scott ($53.493 million).
So, who might be the next golfer to hit the $50 million mark?
Ernie Els is just shy at $49.32 million, while Jason Day and Zach Johnson are just north of $45 million.

        RELATED CONTENT:
      
