
# Your letters for Nov. 5

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:14:42+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/letters/your-letters-for-nov-5-2)

I am just so, so proud to be Canadian that my heart soars and my ears reverberate with the applause that I know we must be receiving from all the rest of the world.
To be willing to sacrifice the well-being of our great nation, to be willing to see our children and grandchildren go bravely into the dark and foreboding future with their hope of personal and national prosperity  and security greatly reduced, all to prevent our 1.6 per cent contribution to world greenhouse gas emissions from rising – nay, to reduce it – is, dare I say it,  nobility beyond words.
I feel sure the world awakes this morning and welcomes our willingness to go backwards, ever backwards, in the name of progress, and that makes me feel so very good that everything we give up to achieve this feeling of goodness is worth it 10 times over!

        Peter McLaws, Calgary
      

        Re: We need to chop public sector’s OT to make real cuts, Opinion, Nov. 1
      
Balancing the annual budget in Alberta makes sense as does Danielle’ Smith’s suggestion to focus on overtime. The UCP approach, with wage cuts and budget freezes, is wrong and will not achieve its objective.
It’s time the government understands the importance of health care and education to its Alberta advantage. The cuts to post-secondary education are short-sighted. The approach to K-12 education will not result in improved education for our children and that needs to be the objective.
Meaningful change will only come from a wholesale overhaul of the processes. Determine what needs to be done, change the processes to achieve these objectives, de-layer the management structure and right-size the employees through attrition and severance. In education, smaller classes, less boards, shared accounting, HR,  IT, and administrative costs. The boards won’t/ can’t do this on their own.
The government needs to drive change through improved processes and reduced overhead.
Dave Craig, Calgary

        Re: Fear and dismay as Encana chooses U.S. as new home, Nov. 1
      
For far too long, the Alberta energy corporate scene has been plagued by mismanagement and excess. A large fraction of the industry has depended on government handouts to stay in business for decades. Not too long ago, everyone and their uncle had an oil company in Alberta.
The enduring low oil prices will prove to be a blessing for Alberta’s oil industry in the long term. The industry will have to evolve from ‘survival of the fattest’ to a healthy and competitive business environment. Signs of this transition were on full display in Suncor’s latest quarterly report on Oct. 30. Here is a company with a healthy balance sheet returning well over half of its earning to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
I look forward to the day when the dead weight is shed and only a few good operators remain.

        Pouria B. Manesh, Calgary
      
