
# State of calamity urged in quake sites

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:10:36+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/state-of-calamity-urged-in-quake-sites/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
LAWMAKERS on Tuesday urged the local governments of areas in Mindanao that were struck by strong earthquakes to immediately declare a “state of calamity” to prevent profiteers from taking advantage of the crisis.
House Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Joey Sarte Salceda said a total of 28,932 houses and public infrastructure in Regions 9, 10, 11, 12 and the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao were reported damaged by the recent earthquakes in Mindanao.
“Most of these [27,845] were houses and of which 20,957 or 74 percent were totally damaged,” Salceda said, adding that the damage affected “critical infrastructure used by the public” such as schools (854), health facilities (73) and public infrastructure (81).
He said the ongoing phenomenon of serial quakes in Mindanao clearly manifests the risk profile of the Philippines since the country is in the earthquake belt (earthquakes), Pacific Ring of Fire (active volcanoes) and the tropical cyclone doormat (typhoons generated in the Pacific).
Ako Bicol Rep. Alfredo Garbin Jr. said there are social-media postings of profiteering in North Cotabato, particularly in Kidapawan City.
“I appeal to the North Cotabato Provincial Board to please declare a state of calamity so that price controls and penalties can be imposed,” Garbin said.
Laguna Rep. Marlyn Alonte also called for the declaration of a “localized state of calamity” in polio-afflicted areas due to the potential disruption and contamination of groundwater as a result of the quakes.
“The state of calamity declaration would directly address components of the systemic problems. For example, neighbors of the affected families can avail of calamity loans to repair or replace their homes’ plumbing and poso negro [sewers],” said Alonte.
“Local government units [LGUs] can use some of the calamity funds to repair sewer systems outside the homes of affected families. LGUs can also impose price controls on the sale of drinking water and personal hygiene items like soap,” she added.
Salceda also revealed that the House is now on the “robust stage” of drafting the bill for the creation of the Department of Disaster Resilience (DDR).
“The House [should] seriously consider the lessons from Mindanao earthquakes and our risk profile which call for the integration of Phivolcs [Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology] and other risk assessment and warning agencies and the BFP [Bureau of Fire Protection] as boots in the ground for the national government to immediately assist the LGUs which retain primary role in DDR,” he said.
“The BFP is most compatible with the DDR since it deals with emergencies, mainly fires and is tasked with building inspection for fire risks,” he added.
Also, Salceda said the Mindanao experience clearly demands the government’s focus on the structural soundness of buildings, including vital facilities like schools and hospitals in the country.
“The magnitude of school children in earthquake zones also needs to be remediated for vulnerability reduction, but this will take time given our budget constraints and thus it would require a full-time, permanent and institutional response—the inclusion of BFP in the DDR. This will ensure that it will have the time to train and prepare for disaster risks,” he said.
Image Credits: AP/Williamor Magbanua
