
# Things that you can do in Birmingham that you couldn't 25 years ago

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sanjeeta Bains, https://www.facebook.com/sanjeetabainsbm/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/things-you-can-birmingham-you-17177485)

Birmingham has gone through radical changes recently, with much of the city centre still looking like a building site.
Brum's ongoing evolution into a world-beating city started in the mid nineties.
In 1994, we had just welcomed Centenary Square,  IC ,  Victoria Square but Brummies were still shopping in the old Bull Ring shopping - built in 1964! 
Fast forward 25 years and there is so much stuff we can do now that were just not possible way back then.
Back in 1994 there was no canalside drinking in Brindleyplace, Glynn Purnell was sending his CV off to restaurants, and very few people had even heard of mobile phones!
Once upon a time you could only get married in a church or at the register office.
But changes to the wedding licensing laws mean that couples can now tie the knot at hundreds of venues including Highbury Hall and the Council House.
The first wedding to be held at the Council House was in 2001.
The Banqueting Suite in the Grade 11 listed building evokes "traditional Victorian elegance" perfect for your special day.
 
Who remembers waiting... and waiting outside C&A on Corporation Street to meet a friend and they were running late?
C&A has gone and so has the need to have a specific meeting place. That's of course all thanks to the handy mobile phone.
Very few of us had one 25 years ago so there was no way of getting in touch to say you got bored waiting and would meet them in somewhere else instead.
These days there is no reason to be hanging around anywhere!
Back in the day,  the only place you could darts was an old man's working club or pub. Or maybe you were just happy watching Bullseye on the telly- a show that ran for 14 years until it ended in 1995.
These days it's a glamorous social activity for trendy Birmingham professionals. Flight Club - the 'home of social darts' opened on Temple Street in September and proved a massive success.
This updated version of the historic game involves multiple players and patented dart tracking technology. All the scoring is done for you. There is also table service to keep you refreshed with cocktails, wine and beers.
We first hosted a German Christmas Market back in 1997.  The market returned in 2001 and the German Christmas Market has been part of the city’s festive offering ever since.
And it's double celebrations this year, Birmingham's German Christmas Market marks its 20th year in the city. Prost!
 
The city centre will shortly be turned into a Brummie Winter Wonderland.
Ice Skate Birmingham's 40m big wheel and new ice rink has arrived at the all new Centenary  Square - signalling we are now on the countdown to Christmas.
Until  2005, the only skating in Centenary Square would be an unintentional slip and slide on a snowy day.
This year's open air rink is the biggest yet.
As well as the wheel, rink and Ice Lounge bar there will be the big surprise of new 55m high ride called City Flyer which will spin guests round in the air once it arrives on site.
It will be open from November 7 2019 -  January 12 2020. Open from 10am - 10:00pm daily.
Back in 1994 we had no idea that boozing with your brekkie could be a legitimate way to spend a morning that wasn't December 25. 
Let's rejoice in what is probably the most welcome food and drink trend of the last decade.  
Bottomless brunch had been a thing in London and other jetsetting cities around the world before it finally arrived in Birmingham in late 2015.  
You can now drink as much as you like for the price of a breakfast, brunch and lunch dish.  
In 2019 we had a mouthwatering array of places to enjoy a scrumptious cocktail or three with our scrambled eggs.  Check out our list here
How did thousands of people from the Black Country ever get to work or go shopping in Birmingham before the Wolverhampton to Snow Hill tram route in 1999?
If people didn't drive they had to get on either the 74, 78 and 79 buses and sit in shocking traffic on the Soho Road.
Thank heavens those days are long gone.  And our tram route is continuing to grow, with 2015 the start of a £128 million package of upgrades to the Metro.
Trams returned to the streets of Birmingham for the first time in 60 years when the Midland Metro started running to a new stop in Bull Street.
Passengers have been using this new extension from St Chad's to Grand Central since May 2016.
And more track extension is on the way.  Trams should start running through Birmingham's Centenary Square for the first time later this year.
When completely finished in 2022, the Birmingham Westside Metro extension Metro will run all the way from Grand Central to Hagley Road in Edgbaston. Hallelujah!
Today Birmingham has a fabulous foodie haven of fine dining restaurants.
But back in 1994 it's fair to say that apart from the good old balti, Brum was a culinary desert.
In 2004, Kenilworth restaurant - Michelin starred Simpsons moved its premises to Edgbaston signalling a new fine dining era for the city.
 
A year later Glynn Purnell at the now closed Jessica's in Edgbaston won Birmingham its first Michelin star.
The rest as they say is history - we know have an incredible five Michelin starred restaurant scene.
This year Aktar Islam's Opheem joined Adam's, Carters of Moseley, Purnell's and Simpsons in the Michelin Guide 2020.  Bon Appetit Birmingham.
The Medicine pop up bakery, which opened in 2017 is a cafe and art gallery rolled into one.
At the time of its opening, owner Simon Jones said: “These kind of cafes exist in New York but Birmingham has nothing like this which perfectly blends food, art and culture."
As well as enjoying some modern art, Brummies can indulge in cronuts - a delectable cross between a croissant and donut that was only invented in New York in 2013.
Brum sure has come a long away and it is going to get better! Read more here
