
# Sajid Javid condemns Rod Liddle article over Muslim comments

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:55:08+00:00**

Author: **Rajeev Syal**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/nov/01/sajid-javid-condemns-rod-liddle-article-over-muslim-comments)


        Chancellor criticises piece that appears to call for election day that would stop Muslims voting
      
Sajid Javid has denounced an article by the controversial journalist Rod Liddle that appeared to call for elections to be held on days when Muslims are forbidden by their religion to vote.
The column in the Spectator magazine has also been condemned for ridiculing a Labour MP’s decision to speak out about her experience of domestic abuse.
Fraser Nelson, the magazine’s editor, told the Guardian that the article “should not have been published in the form that it was” but defended Liddle’s right to attempt to satirise UK politics.
Several contributors at the magazine, including the assistant editor, Isabel Hardman, have expressed dismay at the column for being neither amusing nor worth writing.
Liddle’s article suggested elections should be held at a time when the Muslim and student vote could be minimised in order to improve the Conservatives’ chances of victory.
“My own choice of election date would be a day when universities are closed and Muslims are forbidden to do anything on pain of hell, or something,” he wrote. “There must be at least one day like that in the Muslim calendar, surely? That would deliver at least 40 seats to the Tories, I reckon.”
Javid, a Muslim, tweeted. “Not clear if the Rod Liddle comment is supposed to be a joke – but it’s not funny and not acceptable.” The chancellor added: “No community in our country should be put down that way.”
The Canterbury MP Rosie Duffield was widely praised for a speech to the House of Commons last month in which she described the verbal abuse, humiliation and financial control she suffered at the hands of a former partner.
Liddle’s article, which he has claimed was an attempt to satirise the debate over the timing of the general election, said: “It was principally the student vote that won Canterbury for the sobbing and oppressed Rosie ‘MeToo’ Duffield. Please don’t let that happen again.”
Hardman, who campaigns against domestic abuse, wrote a statement distancing herself from Liddle’s article.
“I profoundly disagree with and am hugely upset by Rod Liddle’s piece. I have nothing to do with pieces that go into the magazine other than the ones I write myself, but do not want anyone to think I somehow agree with what he has said about Muslims voting, and I do not believe they are funny or worth writing.
“Similarly, I know personally just how strong and brave survivors of domestic abuse are, and Rosie Duffield is one of the finest among us.”
Javid’s criticisms are all the more unusual because he is known to be a close associate of Nelson and the chancellor is often praised in Spectator articles.
Liddle, a former editor of Radio 4’s Today programme who now writes for the Sunday Times and the Sun, is one of the UK’s most high-profile columnists but has previously been criticised for his language while addressing issues around race.
Discussing the Peterborough byelection earlier this year, in which Labour narrowly defeated Nigel Farage’s Brexit party by 683 votes, he wrote that many voters of Asian origin “may have been people who do not speak English and may well have thought they were ticking a box to choose their favourite vegetable side dish – tarka dal, brinjal bhaji or Bombay aloo.”
Nelson, the magazine’s editor for 10 years, is liked by many fellow journalists for his sense of mischief. In an article published in April to commemorate his 500th issue, Nelson wrote that he had imagined he might have to leave the job someday because of a Liddle article.
“I thought I’d go down with Rod Liddle, that he and I would drive like Thelma and Louise over the cliff in the name of free speech,” he wrote.
In a statement released to the Guardian, Nelson said Liddle had not seriously suggested that Muslims and students should be prevented from voting. But he conceded that the article in the magazine should not have been published.
“He [Liddle] was satirising the wrangle over the two election dates by making deliberately absurd suggestions. The Spectator is a broad church, we have writers who disagree passionately with each other and they often make jokes. But this one should not have been published in the form that it was,” he said.
Liddle was arrested on election night in 2005 for allegedly punching his pregnant girlfriend, and subsequently accepted a caution. He has claimed he did not touch her but accepted the caution so he could be released.
Following Friday’s outcry, Liddle said: “It was a very light-hearted series of suggestions about when to hold an election, based upon the silly dispute over the proposed dates for the election. They were very obviously ludicrous suggestions, satirical in manner.”
