
# ‘The guy was hysterical’: Pompeo believes Michael McKinley miscast conversations about Yovanovitch, associate says

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:08:33+00:00**

Author: **Joel Gehrke**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/defense-national-security/the-guy-was-hysterical-pompeo-believes-michael-mckinley-miscast-conversations-about-yovanovitch-associate-says)

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he believes former adviser Michael McKinley misrepresented their discussions when he testified before House impeachment investigators, a source close to the secretary said.
“This is a sideshow meant to impugn the character of the secretary of state, meant to throw shade on all of this,” said the source, who spoke to the Washington Examiner on condition of anonymity.
The comment adds a personal component to the rift between Pompeo and the career foreign service officer who was, until recently, one of his most trusted advisers. McKinley, whose office was connected through a door to Pompeo’s office, testified that the secretary gave inadequate support to U.S. Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch. The source close to Pompeo challenged that account, saying that McKinley grew upset and resigned abruptly without the dialogue he described.
“He did not go to the secretary three times,” said the source, who is familiar with Pompeo's thinking about McKinley's testimony. “He’s making it up.”
McKinley told lawmakers that he made records of his engagement on behalf of Yovanovitch, who was recalled from Kyiv in May amid intense criticism from Ukrainian officials. McKinley's deposition appeared to contradict Pompeo’s claim during a televised interview that McKinley never said “a single thing about his concerns with respect to the decision that was made.”
On Thursday, Pompeo said McKinley didn't talk to him when Yovanovitch was recalled.
"He didn't say anything to me," Pompeo told reporters in Germany. "It shouldn’t surprise anyone that in May, when that took place, he didn’t say anything to me."
Ukrainian allegations that Yovanovitch was hostile to Trump were passed along to the president by Rudy Giuliani, in addition to being leveled in American media in March. McKinley pushed for a statement supporting her in late September, after Trump released the transcript of his July 25 phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. That transcript showed Trump denouncing Yovanovitch and promising that “she’s going to go through some things.”
McKinley testified that after reading the transcript he repeatedly tried to secure a statement of support and that he held three direct conversations with Pompeo.
“I don't know whether he said he'd think about it,” McKinley said of Pompeo, describing an initial Sept. 26 conversation. “I don't even think I even got that level of response. It was a passing conversation.”
McKinley testified that he emailed other senior officials to propose a brief statement of support for Yovanovitch. “I wrote it deliberately, decided it was time to start creating a paper trail of my concern,” he said.
But State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus called to say Pompeo would not make the supportive statement, McKinley testified.
"Morgan reached out to me by phone and told me that the secretary had decided that it was better not to release a statement at this time and that it would be, in part, to protect Ambassador Yovanovitch, not draw undue attention to her,” McKinley testified.
McKinley told lawmakers that he spoke two more times to Pompeo before resigning on Sept. 30. In McKinley’s telling, he “wasn't prepared to go into any great details” when he first informed Pompeo of his resignation, but he mentioned “the lack of support for department officials.” When Pompeo and McKinley spoke again, McKinley said, he was “pretty direct” that it is “unacceptable” that they failed to endorse Yovanovitch.
Pompeo remembers it differently, according to the source. “I think the guy was hysterical about Yovanovitch,” the source told the Washington Examiner, saying McKinley cited “personal reasons” when he first resigned. "Then he came back around on the second time he was going out the door, and he said how awful it was the way Yovanovitch was treated and that the secretary should have supported her.”
McKinley, through an attorney, declined to comment.
