
# The Best Speakers For Kids

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Karcz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonykarcz/2019/11/03/the-best-speakers-for-kids/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2830690164&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with 
        
        
          
            Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
Part of being a kid is sharing your music with your friends. This often translates into holding a phone in the air or leaving it on a table somewhere, but that can be problematic for a host of reasons.  
A good portable speaker not only provides better sound, it can help keep their most precious possessions safe.
If you're looking for the most portable, kid-friendly speaker out there, the JBL Clip 3 is the only option you need to consider. This waterproof Bluetooth speaker can pump out 10 hours of tunes with surprising clarity. It's a little bigger than you'd think, but not so much as to be obtrusive. It comes in a wide variety of colors, which is good, because the integrated carabiner allows you to easily clip it to a backpack or gym bag—or whatever’s handy, really. It’s a fashion accessory and a powerful speaker. 
A tiny device with a soft touch silicone exterior and waterproof interior, the Bose Soundlink Micro is a six-hour portable speaker that you can strap to your bag and forget about until you need it. While the battery life isn’t quite that of the Clip 3, you can also use it to activate your phone’s voice assistant. The IPX7 waterproof rating means that it can be doused without worry (something that always seems to happen when groups of kids are involved). With legendary Bose sound, you’ll be happy you’ve brought the SoundLink Micro along.
For more power, get the Flip 5 by JBL. It has 12 hours of battery life and gets impressively loud without distortion. With an IPX7 waterproof rating, it’s fully submersible, so you don’t have to worry about it ending up in the pool at your next party. The on-speaker controls are raised and rubberized, making them easy to find and manipulate, even when wet. The Flip can also connect to two phones via Bluetooth at the same time and up to 100 other JBL speakers (that have PartyBoost). It also comes in a wide array of colors, so feel free to mix and match. What’s nice is that, even though it’s a little bigger, it’s still compact enough to fit easily in a bag or carry-on.
But what if you need all day sound? And by “all day” I’m not talking about those hours you’re awake. What if you need 24 hours of uninterrupted audio? Then you get Anker’s Soundcore 2. Despite its diminutive size, the Soundcore 2 can get crazy loud. It also hosts some of the most impressive bass of any portable speaker on the market—a benefit of Anker’s own BassUp technology. The speaker’s waterproof, dustproof and just generally kid-proof, and can pair with another unit for stereo sound. 
If there’s another speaker out there that says “kids” more, I’m not aware of it. The Pulse 3 sports all the same features as the Flip 5: waterproof and submersible, 12 hours of battery life, Bluetooth and PartyConnect connectivity. But where the Pulse 3 stands out is its integrated LED light show. Using the JBL Connect app, you can customize how the LEDs flash, bringing an audio-visual spectacle to whatever you’re doing. 
