
# Maya Jama turns up for work still in her costume after Jonathan Ross' Halloween party

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:01:28+00:00**

Author: **Verity Sulway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/verity-sulway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/maya-jama-turns-up-work-20791416)

Radio 1 DJ Maya Jama, 25, pulled an all-nighter last night after Jonathan Ross ' infamous Halloween party.
She dressed up as a mermaid for the huge bash, and partied all the way through to her presenting shift at 10am.
Looking rather worse for wear, Maya danced around the studio in a purple sequin skirt and shell bra, with a huge green wig on her head which looked like it had seen better days
She was still wearing her white contact lenses and jewels stuck on her face for her extravagant "evil mermaid" look.
On her way to the studio, she said on her Instagram story: “I’ve just watched my whole story back from last night and I’m off to radio as my mermaid self, as promised.
"Tune in! 10am! What am I like?”
She posted a video of herself dancing when she arrived to work, with the caption: Straight through crew...live on @bbcradio1 lol dedication to the cause."
Even croakier than usual, Maya began her show by asking her team: "You lot slept yeah?"
After getting through her 10-1pm shift, Maya announced: "I survived! All of you that doubted me, I made it!" before swearing at the camera and heading off home, probably to bed.
Also partying at Jonathon Ross' last night were Craig Revel Horwood, who dressed up as Cruella De Vil, Scarlett Moffatt, who dressed up as Edie from Absolutely Fabulous, and Aisling Bea, who wore an outfit with Coleen Rooney's infamous statement about Rebekah Vardy arpund her neck.
Aisling also donned a Sherlock Holmes deerstalker and a pipe as a nod to Coleen's detective work used to uncover who had been leaking stories from her private Instagram account.
For their 2019, Jonathan and Jane took inspiration from Stephen King's It by erecting a huge clown face over the entrance to their home.
The outside decorations also included dancing skeletons, and fake decapitated zombie heads in trees.
There was even a full size model of Hallowen villain Michael Myers placed outside the house to scare the famous guests.
