
# Why 3 Players Could Be ‘Rested’ Before League Soweto Derby

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/why-three-soweto-players-are-at-risk-of-suspension-after-this-weekend/666483)

Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates will lock horns in the quarterfinals of the Telkom Knockout Cup competition this Saturday at the Moses Mabhida Stadium, where three players are at risk of suspension after the weekend’s round of cup football.

        
          Read more: TBT: 3 Times Pitso Ranted About Referees And Chiefs
        
      
Thembinkosi Lorch, who is the only Pirates’ player on three yellow cards, was believed to be tactically ‘rested’ in Bucs’ previous encounter against Highlands Park, so as to avoid picking up another booking and being suspended in this weekend’s cup clash.
However, with the playmaker set to make a return this weekend in what is arguably the biggest game of the TKO round, Lorch is still at risk of picking up that yellow card booking, which would then see the 26-year-old miss Pirates’ encounter against Maritzburg United next week. That scenario could, however, work in Bucs' favour.
After facing Maritzburg next week, Chiefs and Pirates will meet once again in the Absa Premiership on November 09, which means that if Lorch picks up a yellow card this weekend, he’d miss the midweek action and return to FNB Stadium with a clean slate.
The same applies to Chiefs’ Willard Katsande and Daniel Akpeyi. If they, respectively, pick up their fourth yellow-card booking this weekend, they will miss the league clash against Chippa United, before making a return on November 09 in another Soweto derby showdown.
In other news, with TKO action set to get underway this evening, the PSL confirmed that two players, in Boikanyo Komane from Chippa United and Ntsako Makhubela from Golden Arrows, will play no part in their respective side’s fixtures this weekend as they face suspension.
