
# Michelin-starred chef Chris Naylor is coming to Anantara The Palm Dubai Resort

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:49:00+00:00**

Author: **Time Out Dubai staff**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/restaurants/420793-michelin-starred-chef-chris-naylor-is-coming-to-anantara-the-palm-dubai-resort)

Palm Jumeirah’s stunning hotel, Anantara The Palm Dubai Resort, has announced that Michelin-starred chef Chris Robert Naylor will be in Dubai for two days only and will be whipping up a special meal.The acclaimed British chef started his career by studying under some of the world’s best chefs including Albert Roux in London and Amsterdam and celebrity chef Robert Kranenborg.Naylor then went on to head his own kitchens in top-class restaurants such as Le Cirque, La Rive and Vossius – all of which have Michelin stars – and in 2011, he was awarded his first Michelin star for his efforts at Restaurant Vermeer in Amsterdam.Chris Naylor has constantly been celebrated for his creative style, quirky dishes and great respect for seasonal produce and was even named Best Vegetable Chef in 2018 by French restaurant guide, Gault&Millau.Culinary lovers will be able to sample specially-curated menus, whipped up by chef Chris Naylor himself at these one-off dining events.On Thursday November 7 head to Bushman's Restaurant & Bar for a special set dinner menu that stars dishes such as scallops which are still in their shell, baked in bread and then served with fermented plums and celeriac jus. Fish dishes with feature heavily on the menu but meat-lovers can enjoy the likes of roasted and braised veal blade. The dinner will start at 6pm and comes in at Dhs395 for food.Brunchgoers are in for a treat as on Friday November 8, Naylor will host one live cooking station featuring some of his signature specialities and guests can also chat to him and learn more about his approach to preparing delicious food. The Fork and Cork brunch at Crescendo is from 1pm until 4pm and starts at Dhs365 per person with soft drinks.Get ready to discover fine European dining with chef Christopher Naylor in one gastronomically great weekend this November at Anantara the Palm Dubai Resort.Bushman's Restaurant & Bar: Dhs395 (food). Thu Nov 7, 6pm onwards. Crescendo: Dhs365 (soft drinks), Dhs525 (house beverages), Dhs630 (sparking), Dhs735 (bubbly). Fri Nov 8, 1pm-4pm. Anantara The Palm Dubai Resort, Palm Jumeirah, restaurants.dubai@anantara.com (04 567 8304).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
