
# Who is Töôrnst Hülpft? The best theories about the mysterious Desert Sessions collaborator

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:33:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/blogs/nme-blogs/who-is-toornst-hulpft-best-theories-on-the-internet-2563906)


        Rounding up the likely suspects behind Desert Sessions' mystery vocalist
      
If you’ve listened to ‘Desert Sessions, Vol. 11/12’ – the latest record from Josh Homme‘s “bizarro supergroup” – you might have noticed a particularly unusual voice singing on ‘Chic Tweetz’, the sixth track on the album. Alongside British comedy actor and musician Matt Berry, the track credits a certain ‘Töôrnst Hülpft’ on vocals – and fans have been busy posting their theories as to who the mystery singer could be.
In NME‘s Big Read interview with Josh Homme, the Queens Of The Stone Age frontman claimed he has no idea about the real identity of Hülpft. “Matt [Berry] was in town so I said, ‘Let’s not go out – let’s just hang out at Pink Duck and we can order dinner in. Dinner and a movie for me and brother Berry. I asked Stella to come by, too, and I thought Matt knew that guy Töôrnst.
“I thought he was with Matt, but, honestly, I think that’s not correct because then Matt started asking me about him and I was like, ‘What! I thought he was with you?’ He was just this weird guy who turned up at the same time as the others. Nobody comes here unless they know, so it seems inconceivable that it was just random.” Listen to the song below.
