
# 21 Red Hair Color Ideas for Every Complexion

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Janell M. Hickman**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/beauty/hair/g28534/red-hair-color-shades/)

While just two percent of the world's population is born with red hair (including baby Archie according to mom, Meghan Markle), you don't need a ginger gene to pull off the super-rare shade. “The key to achieving the most natural red hair is sticking within the copper or copper-gold family,” explains Matrix celebrity stylist George Papanikolas, who works with the Kardashians, Hailey Baldwin, Shay Mitchell and Nicole Richie. “Any highlights should also stay on tone and in the warm family to accent and compliment the copper base.”
As a former temporary redhead myself, admittedly one challenge can be maintaining your new shade at home. Red dyes notorious bleed faster than other colors, making faded an annoying but real reality. Celebrity hairstylist Chuck Amos— who works with Tracee Ellis Ross, Alicia Keys, Erykah Badu, Solange, and Lion Babe—suggests opting for tinted shampoo or conditioners for colored hair . “This way, you can enhance your color during the wash process,” he explains. “Even if you're born with red tones, you usually need color boost on a regular basis.
Another sub-trend we’re predicting? Cinnamon spice hair, not to be confused with the pumpkin spice phenomena. KEVIN.MURPHY COLOR.ME Global Design Director Kate Reid explains this shade of stunning red is best-suited for those with “natural or golden skin tones. If you have this coloring, try turning to red, peach, coral, orange, amber, gold, and apricot hues this fall.” Inspired? Keep clicking to see all the most complementary reds.
Writer and producer for Pose and Transparent, Our Lady J's chestnut red hair is 100 percent worth bookmarking.
The naturally-red YouTube sensation admits she doesn't do much to maintain her coveted hue. "I prefer to let my hair air dry, so I don’t damage it with heat and other things like that. I [also] use a lot of leave-in conditioner," she told Galore Mag.
The super-woke poet showcases that natural textures (including 4C curls) and the rich autumn hue go perfectly hand-in-hand.
The Queen of Pop is no stranger to red locks. Ever since her album, "The Velvet Rope" dropped, she's been inspiring many to take the plunge.
The new mom (and OG Fenty model) is constantly changing hair color. However, her light cinnamon buzzcut with matching brows is cop-worthy.
So...despite how well she rocks it, Bella Thorne admits that her natural hair color is *gasp* blonde. But seriously, can you imagine her as anything but a rich strawberry redhead?
The Irish beauty's deep auburn shade truly sets off her creamy complexion.
We can't get enough of Halsey's fire engine red. It's reminiscent of Bad Gal Rih Rih's 2011 Vogue cover look.
The South Sudanese model and self-proclaimed Queen of Dark, Nyakim Gatwech proves that any skin tone can wear red hair with confidence—and ease.
This more subdued, strawberry blonde-meet-blonde shade is super chic on actress Serena Laurel.
Honestly, when Zendaya pulled up this deep, rich shade at the Emmy's, the red carpet almost stopped. It warms up her olive skin tone in ways we couldn't even imagine.
Rih Rih returned to her former red head roots at the 2019 BET Awards—and has fans speculating that a new album might be on the horizon, too.
Fire-engine curls may be her signature look, but Debra Messing still counts on Goldwell to keep her color up to par.
Typically Lion Babe is seen rocking her thick, curly mane, but when straightened, you can truly appreciate her amazing color (maintained by Pantene’s Pro-V Radiant Color Shine Shampoo).
Her effortless waves may have been the beauty centerpiece of Sharp Objects, however we've stanned for Amy Adam's ginger hue for years.
We might have to dub Julianne Moore as a our unofficial redhead role model.
Christina Hendricks first dyed her hair red at ten years-old and cites other redheads like Anne of Green Gables,Ginger of Gilligan's Island"and Lucille Ball as her color icons.
This almost brown auburn red looks A+ on actress Emma Stone. Her colorist Tracey Cunningham swears by Redken Shade EQ gloss to keep her shade vivid-yet-natural.
Cited often as one to watch, this Afro-Swedish model breaks the stereotype of natural redhead. Swoon.
Though she switches back and forth from auburn to dark brown, and even light strawberry blonde, Lana Del Rey rocks deep red with aplomb.
Lily Collin's take on red is bright, brazen, and bold. The cherry tone plays up her ahem, lily complexion. Commitment-phobes can fake the funk with strategically placed extensions.
