
# Deleted Game of Thrones scene had another gruesome Stark death

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:15:04+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/deleted-game-thrones-scene-another-20787515)

Game of Thrones almost featured even more horrific deaths befalling House Stark.
Early trailers for the first season of Game of Thrones including a brief shot that showed a man with a close resemblance to Eddard Stark ( Sean Bean ) lying bloodied on the floor of the throne room in the Red Keep with the Mad King Aerys II Targaryen seated on the Iron Throne in the background.
In dialogue in the series and explored in detail in the books, it is revealed that in the days leading to Robert's Rebellion, Ned's brother Brandon wanted to fight Prince Rhaegar Targaryen for his apparent kidnapping of sister Lyanna Stark.
An enraged Mad King had him placed in a strangling device with a longsword just out of reach while his father Lord Rickard Stark was strung up and hung over a fire where he burned and melted to death, with Brandon strangling himself trying to reach the sword to help his father.
However, the horrific scenes evidently did not make the final cut.
 
Speaking to MTV (via Insider ), writer Bryan Cogman revealed that "The decision to not include flashbacks was made right off the bat, the principle reason for that is a logistical and budgetary one… We already had the biggest cast in, maybe, TV history."
He explained: "The other reason is, that's a perfect example of what works in a book that doesn't work on TV.
"The book does brilliantly flash back through memory, and through people telling stories of the past.
"If you were to just take those passages from the book and do them onscreen, you would be doing a flashback every five minutes!
"It would be very jarring, and very difficult to sustain the momentum that you want to sustain."
Despite the changes, fans still have more adventures from the land of Westeros to look forward to, with HBO having confirmed a spin-off series entitled House of the Dragon which will explore the exploits of House Targaryen hundreds of years prior to the events of the main series.
So perhaps there'll be some fire-related deaths there to watch!

        
          Do you wish the scenes had stayed in Game of Thrones? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
