
# Trent Alexander-Arnold backed to play in Liverpool's midfield

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:46:13+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/trent-alexander-arnold-backed-play-20789754)

Liverpool legend Jason McAteer reckons Trent Alexander-Arnold has what it takes to star in Jurgen Klopp's midfield.
Right-back Alexander-Arnold will make his 100th appearance for the Reds against Aston Villa on Saturday.
He has made almost all of those operating from a full-back position, but it has been mooted this week that his future could be further up the field and he could make a switch from right back to central midfield like teammate Fabinho.
Jamie Carragher led the calls as he suggested that Alexander-Arnold could be the Reds' answer to Manchester City's Kevin De Bruyne.
And McAteer agrees. He told Racing Post : “There are many commentators and ex-pros who believe Trent Alexander-Arnold has a future in midfield for both Liverpool and England and I don’t doubt that the youngster could star in the Anfield engine room.
 
"Alexander-Arnold is enjoying a stunning start to the season and is rightly earning praise for some sublime performances. Don’t forget he turned 21 only three weeks ago.
"Yes, Trent could play in midfield – indeed he started off as a central midfielder when he came through the academy. But nowadays he is very much a wing-back and the system Liverpool employ is perfect for him.
"He’s got quality when he puts balls into the box and he can get back and defend when required to do so.
 
"When you are a midfielder you need awareness both sides, in front and behind. You need a range of different attributes to play in that position and I just think he’s set up to play on the right.
"There’s a danger you would get less of a player if you played him in midfield.
"He’s in the most perfect role to learn his craft, playing with and against some of the world's finest players in the best competition and in an elite team. If you can’t improve in that setting you never will.
"He’s learning from all these experiences. In time he’ll add a bit more versatility – I think he could play on the left, for example, and the manager won’t be frightened of playing him in midfield if he needs to.
"But I would want to see him mature into the best full-back in the world and that’s surely going to happen.”
