
# Police arrest five Lazio fans after two Celtic supporters were stabbed in Rome

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:50:37+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Morrow, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/daniel-morrow/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/police-arrest-five-lazio-fans-20833283)

Five Lazio fans have been arrested after two Celtic supporters were stabbed outside an Irish pub in Rome.
Reports emerged that a number of masked Lazio ‘ultras’ allegedly attacked groups of Hoops fans near Flann O’Brien’s at Via Nazionale in the Italian capital on Wednesday.
Several Celtic fans were drinking inside the pub when two men suffered stab wounds nearby.
Now, Italian Police have confirmed that five Lazio fans have been arrested following the alleged attack.
 
Officers in the city also arrested two Celtic fans. It is unclear if they were involved in the same incident.
One of the men injured in the incident remains in hospital while it is understood that an Irish man discharged himself after treatment.
A spokesperson for the Foreign Office said: "Our consular staff have visited a British man who has been admitted to hospital in Rome to offer him support, and are in contact with the Italian medical services.”
Celtic Football Club previously said that it will offer both men support .
A spokesperson for the club said: “We can confirm that two fans have been injured after being stabbed last night.
"Both are now in hospital and will receive every support from the club and the British consulate in Rome.
"Again we would strongly advise supporters to closely follow all guidance issued by the club.”
The violence comes as tensions boiled over ahead of Celtic’s crunch Europa League tie with Lazio on Thursday night.
Thousands of Celtic fans have travelled to Rome to roar on the Hoops, despite fears of ambush from violent Lazio ultras .
Most of the 9,000 travelling supporters had booked for the Italian capital before it emerged that fascist elements of the Lazio support are hell bent on trouble.
 
Hoops fans were advised by the Foreign Office not to wear their club colours while visiting Rome after Celtic’s 2-1 win in Glasgow.
Just last week Lazio fans caused outrage by making fascist open handed salutes while marching through Glasgow city centre.
Celtic’s own ultra fans, The Green Brigade, countered by making a massive banner depicting fascist leader Benito Mussolini hanging upside down - depicting how he was treated after his death in Milan in 1945.
Its message of “follow your leader” brought a UEFA charge for Celtic and led the club to believe the provocation might put fans in danger.
Celtic FC issued detailed guidance on fan safety after considering that the potential risks in Rome exceeded anything else the club has faced in recent years.
