
# Your letters for Nov. 4

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:00:01+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/letters/your-letters-for-nov-4)

With the publication of the UCP’s budget and its intention to sacrifice the welfare of Alberta’s most vulnerable citizens to the great god of money and fiscal restraint and responsibility, may I suggest that each action sanctioned by the budget, such as the elimination of the indexing of AISH allowances, cause to be created within this legislation an ombudsman whose job it is to support and empower those affected to have their voices heard in the provincial legislature and/or courts of this province.
By this creation, the UCP will be seen as giving some semblance of power to the powerless, something that we do not ordinarily see in Conservative governments.

        Richard Heyman, Professor Emeritus, Werklund School of Education, University of Calgary
      

        Re: Calgary-based Encana plans to move base to U.S., change name, Nov. 1
      
Would the last energy company to leave Alberta please turn off the lights and lock the door.

        Dan Pomerleau, Calgary
      
The Alberta media is consumed with Alberta’s economic malaise and anger at Ottawa. Missing is recognition that our current situation is largely self-imposed. We have a cyclical economy dependent on one major product. For 40 years we elected and re-elected a government which failed to establish a tax regime to buffer the province against ups and downs in the oil industry; failed to diversify the economy; and which bought our vote with promises of excellent services without having to pay for them. We have weathered several recessions; the only difference this time is that the next oil boom is not around the corner, with or without a pipeline.
Politicians feed off discontent and blame the rest of the country. Indeed, our current provincial government has precluded revenue increases and clings to the illusion that the next boom will eventually come; there is no strategy to move Alberta forward.
Instead of war rooms against imaginary foes and travelling circuses to listen to fears and anger, the money would be better invested in a discussion on reimagining Alberta’s economy. Instead of denying climate change, it should be seen as an opportunity to redefine our economy, create new industries and jobs, and offer hope and opportunity to future generations. But that would take work and require challenging the prevailing culture; much easier to blame Ottawa.

        Geoffrey King, Calgary
      

        Re: Radical Alberta now knows where it stands, Opinion, Oct. 31
      
In Chris Nelson’s column, among his otherwise strong arguments, he chastises Justin Trudeau as being devoid of intellect. I disagree.
The leaders of federal parties on the left would simply eviscerate the oil industry in this country, causing unimaginable job losses in the West; the federal party on the right would promote our oil industry while essentially ignoring climate change. The party down the middle approved the twinning of a pipeline to the West Coast while doing Canada’s part in addressing climate change and preparing us for a future low-carbon economy. Sounds intellectual to me.

        Tim Creelman, Calgary
      
