
# Lori Loughlin's Daughters Olivia Jade and Bella Are Reportedly 'Really Upset With Her' After She Rejected Plea Deal

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29711851/lori-loughlin-olivia-jade-isabella-trial-feelings/)

Lori Loughlin considered but ultimately rejected a plea deal and pled not guilty to her college admission scandal charge of bribery. Lori and her husband Mossimo Giannulli have also been charged with conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, and money laundering; they are set to contest these allegations in court at a to-be-determined date. And according to Us Weekly, their daughters Isabella, 21, and Olivia Jade, 20, are not happy about that decision.
The girls will likely be called to testify during the trial, the outlet points out. Their parents face up to 50 years in prison for allegedly paying $500,000 to make it appear the two were rowing team recruits to guarantee their admission to the University of Southern California. Olivia and Bella are no longer enrolled in the school, USC confirmed last month.
A source told Us that now that Lori is probably going to trial to contest the charges (unless she takes a surprise final-hour plea deal), Bella and Olivia are "really upset with her" because of the effect the trial will have on their lives. Lori is also worried about that: "She knows she has caused so much damage to her daughters’ lives and reputations and knows a trial would only make it worse," the source said.
Olivia and Bella have not been charged in the college admissions cheating case. Both have kept a relatively low profile since it broke their spring. In September, Us reported that Olivia, who had been a beauty vlogger and YouTuber, was still a little "resentful" of her mom for ruining her career. “Olivia Jade is worried that she won’t be able to build a brand after what her parents have done,” a source told the outlet then.
