
# Golden goal clinches second place in GNAC for Seattle Pacific women’s soccer team

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:35:03+00:00**

Author: **Seattle Times staff**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/sports/golden-goal-clinches-second-place-in-gnac-for-seattle-pacific-womens-soccer-team/)

Freshman Marissa Bankey had a golden goal to give the Seattle Pacific women’s soccer team a 2-1 win against Western Oregon on Saturday afternoon at Interbay Stadium.
Bankey’s goal came at 107:19 and secured second place in the Great Northwest Athletic Conference for the Falcons (10-6, 8-2).
• Grant Titus and Sam Malloch scored as the visiting Seattle Pacific men (4-9-1, 3-6-0 GNAC) beat Simon Fraser 2-1.
• Paige Malm’s golden goal in the 109th minute gave Seattle U (10-7-2, 6-1-1 WAC) a 3-2 win against visiting Utah St.
• Ashlynn Burgess was scored 23 points as Seattle Pacific beat visiting Puget Sound 76-63 in an exhibition game.
• Eve Kerschenbaum had 21 kills and six digs to lead Seattle U (11-15, 2-10 WAC) past visiting Cal State Bakersfield 18-25, 25-21, 25-18, 30-28.
• Maddie Batiste had 20 kills and 15 digs as Seattle Pacific (11-11, 8-6 GNAC) beat host Concordia 25-17, 25-23, 22-25, 25-19.
• Alex Morozoff scored, but the visiting Seattle T-birds lost to the Portland Winterhawks 2-1.
• Three different players scored as the host Everett Silvertips turned back Kamloops 3-2.
• The Seattle U men’s and women’s cross-country teams both took seventh at the WAC championships in Kansas City, Mo. Nathan Pixler was the top men’s finisher for SU, placing 22nd with a 8K time of 26:03.14. Olivia Stein led the SU women with a 16th-place finish, running the 6K course in 22:12.12.
Seattle Times staff
