
# National Lottery has named the luckiest postcodes in the UK - see if you live by one

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Bowden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/national-lottery-named-luckiest-postcodes-20806392)

If you never have much luck with your lottery numbers, a move to Birmingham might boost your chances.
The National Lottery has revealed the luckiest postcodes in the UK as part of its 25th birthday celebrations.
A staggering 5,500 millionaires have been made since the lottery launched in 1994, according to the statistics, and 168 of them are from the Birmingham postcode.
While the West Midlands city takes the top spot for players banking a seven-figure sum, some 133 players with a Belfast postcode have scooped a million each.
Lottery luck also lives in Glasgow, which takes third place with 125 millionaires made since the lottery launched.
The statistics by the National Lottery also looked at where players are most likely to win a prize of more than £50,000.
Galashiels, a town in the Scottish borders, has seen the most big winners by local population.
 
On average, one in every 894 players has banked a big prize since the lottery's launch, while traditionally lucky Romford in Essex and Cleveland in the north-east of England have seen one in 922 and one in 952 respectively.
Data from the last three years suggests Leicester locals have been in luck recently, climbing the top 10 with 30 millionaires made since September 2016.
Andy Carter, senior winners' adviser for the National Lottery, said: "We go to every corner of the country to pay out big prizes and make millionaires.
"With on average seven new millionaires made every week, you can be sure we'll be visiting somewhere close to you very soon.
"Over the last 25 years, The National Lottery has been making amazing things happen.
"Thanks to our National Lottery players, 565,000 Good Cause grants have been given out to projects big and small, that's the equivalent of 200 life-changing projects in every UK postcode district making a huge impact on communities all over the country.
"On top of this, we have celebrated so many lucky winners who have won life-changing sums of money - here's to another 25 years of making dreams come true."
