
# Celtic fan 'punched three police horses' during riot at Airdrie cup clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:29:57+00:00**

Author: **Connor Gordon**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/celtic-fan-punched-three-police-20834244)

A Celtic fan has gone on trial accused of punching three police horses during the worst riot an officer claimed he has ever seen.
Kevin McGuire, 36, denies “causing unnecessary suffering” to Nerston, Oban and Glasgow on January this year before the Hoops played Airdrie in the fourth round of the Scottish Cup at Parkhead.
Sergeant Mark Stewart told Glasgow Sheriff Court: “When I got there, Airdrie fans were being blocked from getting into the ground by Celtic fans.
“There were families trying to get in and there were bricks and missiles getting flung as well as spitting and throwing lit cigarettes.
“They were very aggressive and this was the worst riot I had ever seen.”
The officer claimed McGuire was "directing others" during the alleged incident and said he saw him attack three police horses outside the ground.
 
He added: “I asked him to move and he punched my horse Oban on the nozzle which caused him to react.
“It was a full blown punch and he also punched police horse Glasgow on the face.”
Sgt Stewart claimed another police horse named Nerston was also punched later on.
He stated he was hit on the leg by McGuire as was another officer, while PC Mark Garner claimed to have witnessed the attacks.
But PC Garner was unable to identify himself or McGuire when CCTV was shown to the court.
He claimed to have arrested McGuire after the incident and put him into a police van with two sets of handcuffs locked behind his back.
But he claimed McGuire moved them to the front using a “party trick.”
Lawyer, Michael McKeown, defending, asked how it was possible.
 
PC Garner replied: “I’m not a contortionist and don’t know how it was done.”
PC Garner took McGuire to nearby London Road police office where he was said to be “compliant but aggressive.”
McGuire, from Cardonald, Glasgow, is also charged with two assaults to police officers and acting in a threatening and abusive manner.
He denies the charges.
The trial continues before Sheriff John McCormick.
