
# Pirates Risk Achieving Terrible Record!

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:02:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/orlando-pirates-closing-in-on-terrible-record/666886)

At the rate of suspensions in recent matches, Orlando Pirates risk the chance of earning a poor red card record. 
Pirates have had players sent off in the last two matches, which has raised concerns about whether the team is feeling under more pressure due to disappointing results.

        Read: Pirates’ Huge Soweto Derby Blow! 
      
During Tuesday night’s Absa Premiership match against Maritzburg United, the Buccaneers had their captain Happy Jele, who recently returned from suspension, sent off after he picked up his second yellow card in the second half.
A similar occurrence had happened during last weekend’s match against Kaizer Chiefs, after the Soweto giants lost Mthokozisi Dube due to a sending off. 

        Read: High-Spirited Chippa Ready For Chiefs! 
      
Oddly, Dube is one of the players who received red cards for Pirates last season. Bucs had three red cards during the 2018/19 season. The other culprits at the time were Thamsanqa Gabuza and Marshall Munetsi.  
Despite pressure mounting after winning only three from 10 league matches, and after exiting all the cup competitions, the team will have to be careful of contending for the most number of red cards at the end of the season.   
While still playing for Free State Stars, Nyiko Mobbie, and Robyn Johannes during his time with Bidvest Wits, as well as the duo of Taariq Fielies of Cape Town City and Black Leopards’ Khuliso Mudau finished with two red cards each.   
Eal Lla Koto had the most red cards last season at five.      
