
# PCB should have clear policy on leagues, states Mohammed Hafeez

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:57:44+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/pcb-should-have-clear-policy-on-leagues-states-mohammed-hafeez?utm_medium=rss)


        Mohammed Hafeez questioned Pakistan Cricket Board's decision to revoke the NoC for the Abu Dhabi T10 League and asked them to have a clear policy on it. Hafeez has also added that he wants the NoC because he doesn't have a central contract and hasn't been selected in the Pakistan squad either.
      
PCB initially issued NOCs to some 15 players, including Mohammed Hafeez, but after PCB's patorn and the country's Prime Minister Imran Khan's intervention, the board decided to announce that the NOCs were revoked as the players were required to play domestic cricket and attend camps. That irked Abu Dhabi T10 League organisers who strongly protested against the decision and now, Mohammed Hafeez has also protested the same.
"First they issued the NOCs and now they have stopped it. I don't understand. They should have a clear policy on leagues," Hafeez said, reported Times of India.
"I am not in the central contracts list, neither have I been selected in the Pakistan team, Nor do I have any provisional contract and I am also not playing first-class domestic cricket so I do want to go and play in the league," he said.
According to reports that circulated, Emirates Cricket Board vice-chairman Khalid Al Zarooni had sent a letter last week to PCB chairman Ehsan Mani to say that the decision would directly hurt the UAE government's stakes in the tournament, and urged the Pakistani board to change its mind. The ECB is thought to be thinking of its options, including raising the issue of government interference in the PCB's affairs with the ICC.
