
# Huawei Nova 6 renders show pill-shaped hole punch design - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:53:56+00:00**

Author: **Abdul**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/01/huawei-nova-6-renders-show-pill-shaped-hole-punch-design/)

Huawei Nova 6 renders show pill-shaped hole punch design4.3 (85.13%) 39 votes
The Huawei Nova 6 which could be announced by the end of this year has been on the rumour mill for a while now. By now, we already know the design and some of the specifications of this upcoming device. However, the leaks do not seem to stop as a new unseen render of the Huawei Nova 6 has surfaced today on the web, courtesy of Android Headlines.
The new render of the forthcoming Huawei Nova 6 sheds light on the different colour variants as well as the Galaxy S10-like hole-punch notch. A number of leaks have hinted the same design for the upcoming Honor V30. Going by the render, the Nova 6 will come in three colours and they are Black, Blue, and Purple. Do note that the marketing name of these colour variants will be different. But all of them will certainly have some sort of pattern when they are directly under a light source as seen on the first-ever render leak.
The Huawei Nova 6 is expected to launch in both 4G and 5G versions. The above render is said to be of 4G version but both the versions will share the same hardware sans the connectivity options. The Nova 6 was recently spotted on 3C certification listing with model number WLZ-AL10 and WLZ-AN00 for 4G and 5G variants respectively. The listing also confirmed the 40W charger(model number: HW-100400c00) that will come bundled with the phone.
The display of Nova 6 will have a dual punch-hole like the one found on the Galaxy S10 Plus. But the type of display is still a mystery as the first-ever leaked render showcased what seems to be a side-mounted fingerprint sensor. If that is true, it will sport an LCD panel and not an AMOLED panel. Other than that, the phone will have a quad-camera setup whose configuration is also unknown at the moment.
