
# The new tech idea that could transform productivity for small businesses across Birmingham

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:37:21+00:00**

Author: **Dave Masters**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/new-tech-idea-could-transform-17219057)

Most of us have probably heard the word 'fintech', a term related to the use of technology in the world of finance. 
However, another new phrase has been coursing through the corridors of modern business in recent years.
An amalgamation of the words property and technology, 'proptech' refers to the use of modern technology to refine and enhance the operations of the property sector.  
A proptech savvy business can be divided into three parts. The internal tech that incorporates apps and websites such as those used for booking meeting rooms or searching for real estate. Hardware features like motion sensors, smart home-computers and drones for building inspections. And physical tech-made objects for 3D-printed building materials.  
Advances in proptech are having a transformative impact on the industry. According to KPMG , 97% of real-estate professionals felt that digital innovations will have an influence on their business, while 78% said the power of tech had increased over the past 12 months. 
There has been a shift in investment strategies for modern businesses, and proptech is at the forefront of that. Since emerging from the shadow of its well-established fintech sibling, all the evidence suggests that proptech is here to stay.
According to figures , proptech began to receive significant investment from venture capital funds in 2016. In the USA alone, proptech backing grew from $44.7m in 2012 to $6.5bn in 2017. 
Statistics are all well and good, but what are the practicalities for everyday business? 
From a property manager's perspective, the advantages of proptech are aplenty.
Proptech can help reduce the time and effort needed to undertake simple tasks. For example, clients can book meeting rooms online rather than manually, and payments can be automated.  
Let's be clear: be it a phone, an app or a laptop, most people are now reliant on technology. Whether it be ordering a taxi from the palm of your hand, or setting important reminders with the use of voice control, convenience through technology is a vital component of everyday life. So then, why would you want to spend time manually booking a room or renting a serviced office the old-fashioned way?
Proptech allows a prospective customer to view your portfolio, refine searches and book swiftly and efficiently. This could be the difference between landing a new business or watching it slip away to a rival that makes things more accessible than you do. 
The better you know your customer, the easier it is to understand their needs. Proptech automated booking enables you to collect up to date information on your clients. This means you can tailor your offering to suit the client and send targeted marketing communications to help generate more business down the line.  
Proptech is just one element of a bigger picture known as "the future of work". Essentially, this is a way of thinking that frees employees up to concentrate on more creative endeavours – and leaving the routine, everyday tasks to technology.  
Being seen as part of this future trend today is vital for companies that want to stand out and differentiate themselves from competitors. It pays to employ a workforce that is less tied up in everyday tasks and more focused on growing the business. 
