
# Liverpool fan Sean Cox returns to Anfield for first time since savage attack

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:45:28+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-fan-sean-cox-set-20824034)

Liverpool fan Sean Cox made his first return to Anfield since he was left with brain injuries by Roma fans.
Irishman Cox was struck on the head by supporters of the Italian side in an unprovoked attack before a Champions League semi-final in April 2018 before spending time in a coma.
Dad-of-three Cox has spent the last 18 months undergoing intensive rehabilitation and therapy, and has been based in Sheffield since September.
Cox has been able to watch his beloved Reds once since his life-changing injury when Liverpool legends played a Republic of Ireland XI at the Aviva Stadium - with £700,000 raised for the Sean Cox Rehabilitation Trust.
 
Jurgen Klopp welcomed Cox in his programme notes ahead of the crunch clash against Manchester City.
"There are a couple of people in the ground today I want to make a special mention of - Sean Cox and his incredible family," he wrote.
"Sean's story has touched all of us, and although initially the emotions were one of sadness that his life has been so affected purely by coming to support the football team he loves, we now have new feelings when we hear his name mentioned.
"Sean's name and that of his wife Martina and his wider family makes me think of courage, spirit and renewal.
"Sean is an inspirational figure in this club's story now. To know he plans to come back to Anfield - to support this club once more - brings perspective to so many things, both in football and life.
"I hope all of us here today, whatever colours we wear, do him proud in how to approach this occasion."
Cox's wife Martina has given an update on Cox's current condition and what the future holds for him.
"Obviously we've been in Sheffield since the beginning of September. He's on a 12-14 week programme.
"Sean needs a serious amount of rehab, and it's to improve him... for a better quality of life.
"We don't really know the final outcome, how things are going to pan out... but we're there just to make things better for him."
You get your programme in the NRH, and you get your time - and then that's it, you're done.
"Unfortunately for Sean, he needs so much more rehab - so that's why we had to reach out and see what we could do.
"Other than that, Sean would just be in a nursing home - and we just weren't having that, so that's why we did all the fundraising."
