
# Some lorry death victims 'could be identified this week'

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CLAIRE SIMPSON**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/some-lorry-death-victims-could-be-identified-this-week--1758506/)

SOME of the 39 victims found dead in a lorry in Essex last week could be publicly identified within days.
The bodies of 31 men and eight women, all believed to be Vietnamese, were found in a container at an industrial park in Grays in the early hours of October 23.
Several people from Northern Ireland have either appeared in court or are wanted in connection with the deaths.
Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said an announcement on the victims' identities could be made within days.
Post-mortem examinations are being carried out to establish how the 39 migrants died.
A team of Vietnamese police and officials arrived in the UK on Monday to work with officers in Essex to formally identify the victims.
Essex Police Assistant Chief Constable Tim Smith said officers have been working hard to identify the victims and bring all those responsible to justice.
"The identities of the victims remain unconfirmed, however we have worked closely with Vietnamese Police over the last two days and anticipate presenting cases to the Identification Commission which is overseen by Her Majesty's Senior Coroner for Essex Caroline Beasley-Murray," he said.
"It's an important process which is the culmination of hours of meticulous work by a dedicated team to provide evidence to be presented at the commission.
"Our priority continues to be to the thorough and meticulous investigation into the criminality that resulted in the death of the victims, to preserve the dignity of those who have died and to support their friends and family."
So far, 11 people have been arrested in Vietnam in connection with the deaths.
A total of nine people are being held in police custody in relation to people smuggling offences, the director of police in Nghe An province said.
Two people were arrested in the neighbouring Ha Tinh province last week.
Two Co Armagh brothers are wanted over the migrants' deaths.
It is understood that Ronan Hughes (40) and his brother Christopher (34), who are wanted on suspicion of manslaughter and human trafficking, are in Co Monaghan.
Mo Robinson (25), of Laurelvale, Co Armagh, appeared before an English court last week, charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration and money laundering.
Essex Police have also started extradition proceedings to bring 22-year-old Eamonn Harrison, from Mayobridge in Co Down, to the UK.
Mr Harrison appeared in the High Court in Dublin on Friday. He is facing charges including 39 counts of manslaughter, along with human trafficking and immigration offences.
Three other people arrested in connection with the investigation - a 38-year-old man, a 38-year-old woman, and a 46 year-old man - have all been released on bail until later this month
