
# Fortnite Creators Break Silence On FaZe Jarvis Lifetime Ban And Reject His Apology

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:10:02+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Frew**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/news/fortnite-creators-break-silence-on-faze-jarvis-lifetime-ban-and-reject-his-apology/)


        Fortnite’s creators have defended banning a 17-year-old YouTuber for life, saying cheaters like him ‘ruin games’ for everyone. 
      
Jarvis Kaye, also known as FaZe Jarvis, was caught uploading gameplay videos to his channel showing him using aimbots – a cheat that vastly improves the accuracy of one’s shot.
The teenage millionaire, a gaming star online with more than two million subscribers on YouTube and more than 200,000 followers on Twitch, said he didn’t consider that his actions would lead to a ban. But Epic Games, the company behind the free-to-play phenomenon, are steadfast: Kaye will remain banned.
The use of aimbot software in Fortnite is fiercely forbidden (allegedly, some versions of the software contain dangerous malware that can endanger players’ private data). Unsurprisingly though, it’s incredibly popular, giving players an easy way to radically boost their performance.

        A spokesperson for Epic Games explained to The Sun: 
      
Kaye is a member of the FaZe Clan eSports team, and insists he only used aimbot software for entertainment purposes and ‘of course I have never done this in a competitive game mode at all’.
In an emotional video, Kaye explained his actions and pleaded with the creators to lift the ban, acknowledging ‘how big of a mistake’ he made. ‘I’m going to do my best to accept any punishment that comes my way,’ he added.

        Have a look at the video below: 
      
