
# Haldiram, Pune realtor in fray for Lavasa

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:44:48+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/haldiram-pune-realtor-in-fray-for-lavasa/articleshow/71848072.cms)

MUMBAI: A consortium led by Haldiram Snacks and another led by Pune-based developer Anirudha Deshpande have emerged as the main contenders for Lavasa Corporation — the entity developing a hill city near Pune of the same name. UV Asset Reconstruction company is also understood to have put in a bid.
The Haldiram-led consortium has offered Rs 2,125 crore against total claims of Rs 8,716 crore. Of this, Rs 1,646 crore would be repaid to banks and financial institutions who have claims of Rs 5,559 crore. Haldiram proposes to position the hill station as an education, tourist and holiday destination. The group has also given a break-up of what it will spend in meeting homebuyer claims. Haldiram has put in its bid along with Pioneer Facor IT Infradevelopers and Sanar Property.
Deshpande’s bid is for Rs 1,173 crore, of which Rs 1,120 crore is offered to institutional creditors. For home buyers, Deshpande has not assigned any value but has offered to construct and give possession of promised units after factoring in a cost escalation.
The Haldiram consortium’s proposal includes an upfront payment of Rs 246 crore to creditors, of which Rs 100 crore would be paid to financial creditors.
Lenders said that a final decision would be taken by November 4. The representatives from the 17 lenders heard the presentations from the bidders and will now discuss the same with their head offices. A senior banker said that there would be factors to be considered — the upfront payment, the proposal for home buyers and the loan repayment period, among others.
Lavasa had sold houses in villages Dasve and Mugaon and the bidders have promised to deliver homes within three to seven years.
The key lenders to the project are Union Bank of India with admitted claims of Rs 710 crore, L&T Infrastructure Finance (Rs 656 crore), Asset Reconstruction Company of India (Rs 606) and Bank of India (Rs 567 crore).
The balance is spread across 13 other lenders. Lavasa Corporation is promoted by HCC (68.7%), the Avantha Group (17.18%) and Venkateshwara Hatcheries (7.81%). It had projected the township as a hill city, about one-fifth the size of Mumbai, with the objective of housing three lakh permanent residents.
