
# Clontibret edge out Crossmaglen as John McEntee disappears from view

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **From Brendan Crossan in Armagh**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/sport/gaafootball/2019/11/04/news/clontibret-edge-out-crossmaglen-as-john-mcentee-disappears-from-view-1755277/)

Ulster Club Senior Football Championship quarter-final: Crossmaglen Rangers (Armagh) 0-9 Clontibret (Monaghan) 0-10
AS soon as the final whistle sounded on Saturday night, John McEntee removed his monkey hat and disappeared down the tunnel at The Athletic Grounds.
If someone had offered him a lift straight back to south Armagh right then, he would have gladly taken it and skipped all the handshakes and post-match duties.
In front of a crowd of 4,564, Clontibret had just slayed Crossmaglen Rangers in the Ulster Club Championship by the narrowest of margins.
McEntee, a serial winner with Crossmaglen Rangers both as a player and manager, wouldn't recommend plotting the downfall of your own club in such a high stakes game of football.
The winning manager had to be cajoled into talking to the press afterwards.
“I'm absolutely glad it's over,” McEntee said. “I knew it was always going to be difficult. I didn't want to be seen to be part of the celebrations…
“It's not a nice place to be when you're managing against your own club. I suppose it's a while since I managed those [Crossmaglen] fellas but at the same token my blood is black and amber.
“I knew what I had to do. I knew the position I put myself in and it's not easy, and I suppose you rationalise the fact that I'm there to do a job.
“I tried to park the emotion as best as I could. It was probably more difficult after the match than during it or in the build-up. Sometimes when the match is over the emotion is there than it is at the start.”
Saturday night's first provincial quarter-final mightn't have been the best spectacle you'll ever see, but when you stood on the muddy surface afterwards, your admiration for both sets of players soared for them being able to serve up any spectacle at all.
After being a game away from dropping down to intermediate football 12 months ago, the unlikely Monaghan champions now find themselves in an Ulster semi-final.
The fact that their preparations for Saturday night's provincial opener were plagued by a “couple of weddings and some fellas away on holidays” suggested that the Clontibret players didn't expect to be still playing competitive football in November.
But here they were on Saturday night, slugging it out in the mud with one of the biggest names in Ulster football.
And although they scraped home with just a point to spare, Clontibret were full value for their victory.
Crossmaglen boss Kieran Donnelly was gracious as ever afterwards.
“We didn't play well. When your forward line scores three points [from play] in a match, you're chasing the game.
“There were only four points in it at half-time [0-7 to 0-4]. In Armagh, you might get away with that but in Ulster football you'll find it hard to cut those leads back.
“We'd quite a lot of chances and didn't take them – that's the disappointing part of it. But total congratulations to Clontibret. The best team won and that's it.”
Donnelly refused to complain about a couple of soft frees awarded to their opponents in the second half when he might have been justified in doing so.
On a dank night like Saturday every point was always going to be worth its weight in gold.
The evergreen Conor McManus got his first of six points after just two minutes from a placed ball and three minutes later, with his marker Christopher Crowley hanging off him, he somehow kept his balance to thunder over a majestic score to announce Clontibret's intentions.
It took Crossmaglen 16 nervy minutes to register their first score of the night, through an Aaron Kernan free, but the Armagh champions sorely lacked rhythm, particularly in their attacking play.
Every time they kicked the ball into their inside line, it came straight back out again and the ageless Dessie Mone was usually the man galloping into Crossmaglen territory.
Corner-forward Pauric Boyle pounced to nab two first half points as the Crossmaglen defence struggled to get to grips with the pace of the Clontibret attack and Michael P O'Dowd, who posted a hugely impressive first half hour, broke free to bag a couple of points.
Apart from one mistake from keeper Darren McDonnell, which allowed Kyle Carragher to reduce the arrears to 0-6 to 0-2 after 26 minutes, Clontibret's short kick-out strategy was working a treat until their opponents began to press high towards the end of the first half.
The south Armagh men hit seven costly wides in the opening half hour, and that tally kept climbing in the second period despite second-half substitute Tony Kernan giving 'Cross more impetus.
Oisin O'Neill grabbed his first point of the night after the restart, finishing off a flowing move involving Aaron Kernan and Callum Cumiskey before Tony Kernan thumped over another from distance to trail by two points.
McManus was denied by a smart Tiernan McConville save on 42 minutes and for a time Clonitbret didn't look like adding to their 0-7 first half tally.
A 47th minute Rain O'Neill free made it three-in-a-row as Crossmaglen started turning the screw before McManus replied a minute later to settle the Monaghan men.
In the final quarter, captain Brian Greenan and Vinny Corey won a couple of dirty balls that were as good as scores to Clontibret.
Visiting 'keeper Darren McDonnell batted away three shots on his goal in the closing stages, while corner-back Conor Doyle was perfectly placed to intercept Rain O'Neill's pass across the face of Clontibret's goal as ‘Cross tried to raise a green flag.
Had they managed to ripple Clontibret's net in stoppage-time it would have been rough justice on the Monaghan champions.
After being pipped by Crossmaglen in 2006 and 2007 in Ulster duels, it was Clontibret's turn to win by a point.
And it took a Crossmaglen native to do it.
But there would be little fanfare in the McEntee household on Saturday evening.
“I'll go home now and take a couple of paracetamol, have a cup of tea and a packet of biscuits,” McEntee said.
Crossmaglen Rangers: T McConville; P Hughes (0-1), R Kelly, P McKeown; A Kernan (0-1 free), C Cumiskey, C Crowley; S Morris, A Farrelly; J Hanratty, O O'Neill (0-2, 0-1 free), C O'Connor; C McConville, R O'Neill (0-3, 0-2 frees), K Carragher (0-1) Subs: T Kernan (0-1) for J Hanratty (h/t), P Stuttard for P McKeown (h/t), M Boyce for A Farrelly (43), J McKeever for C O'Connor (51)
Yellow cards: P McKeown (6), J Hanratty (18), C Crowley (56)
Clontibret: D McDonnell; C Doyle, C Boyle, L Savage; J Gormley, D Mone, C Greenan; F Hughes, K Lavelle; D Savage, MP O'Dowd (0-2), B Greenan; P Boyle (0-2), V Corey, C McManus (0-6, 0-5 frees) Subs: D Hughes for P Boyle (48), K Greenan for F Hughes (60), E McGuigan for D Savage (63)
Yellow cards: J Gormley (30), MP O'Dowd (42), L Savage (46), D Savage (60)
Red card: MP O'Dowd (42, yellow, 64, black)
Black card: MP O'Dowd (64, not replaced)
Referee: S Hurson (Tyrone)
