
# Airdrie man just avoids prison sentence after bizarre petrol station incident

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:30:26+00:00**

Author: **Airdrie and Coatbridge Advertiser, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/airdrie-and-coatbridge-advertiser/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/airdrie-man-just-avoids-prison-20816714)

An aggressive Airdrie man who frightened petrol station staff with his “bizarre” behaviour has narrowly avoided a prison sentence.
Mark O’Brian was holding a fire extinguisher and a rock as he yelled abuse at two employees at Peggy White’s garage in Newhouse.
O’Brian, 33, of St Andrew’s Gardens, appeared at Hamilton Sheriff Court last week.
He admitted threatening or abusive behaviour which caused staff fear and alarm on September 29.
O’Brian also owned up to throwing an apple which struck one employee on the face and throwing the rock which hit him on the body.
Defence agent Diarmid Bruce said his client has had psychiatric treatment in the past and suffers from “episodes” which results in “bizarre behaviour on his part”.

        Click here for more from Airdrie and Coatbridge
      
Mr Bruce added: “On this occasion he had been drinking.
“He says he has not had a drink since; he certainly appears contrite.”
Sheriff Allan McKay told O’Brian: “Given the terms of the criminal justice social work report, and on a margin, I’m prepared to make a community payback order as an alternative to custody.”
O’Brian will be under supervision for a year and must attend counselling as directed by his social worker.
He was also ordered to complete 100 hours of unpaid community work within six months.
