
# The Rising Power of Peers—And What That Means For Leaders

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Denise Brodey**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/denisebrodey/2019/11/01/the-rising-power-of-peersand-what-that-mean-for-leaders/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2792295554&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

Today, employees trust their coworkers more than their leaders with their mental health issues. Americans are confiding in their peers about anxiety, stress, depression and burn-out, crossing the traditional line in the sand that was once drawn to keep personal issues or feelings out of the workplace. New research by Berlin Cameron and Kantar shows that employees feel leaders are not open enough about mental health. Even more startling was the fact that 69% of employees said they had not used any of the mental health services their employer provided.
Yet more than half of adults (age 25-44) said they were open about mental wellness with coworkers. Approximately half of all employees had asked for help from a coworker and 70% said they would be happy to help if asked. “There is a consensus that talking about the problem could help alleviate it,” said Jen DaSilva, president of Berlin Cameron, a strategic and creative agency and part of the WPP network. “The power of the coworker is clear.” 
“Peer support has consistently been found to reduce mental health distress and promote quality of life,” said Karen Fortuna, PhD, assistant professor at Dartmouth College.

        Why Not Leaders?
      
Leaders hold a different kind of power—to promote and fire, to determine your work schedule and your bonus. Appearing weak, unpredictable or overburdened to a higher up is not ideal. But not all leaders see mental illness that way. So why not confide in them? Avoiding a higher up may also indicate a lack of confidence in an employer’s ability to be an effective problem solver. You can’t put the genie back in the jar, either. Make yourself vulnerable and word spreads that you have a mental health issue? It could follow you to future jobs.
To understand how the traditional role of front-line managers and HR is changing, take a look at Human Resources. A recent post from an HR expert with 20 years in the field calls for a time for transformation and asking tough questions about past practices that have outlived their ability to contribute. “Annual performance appraisals, outdated hiring practices that include discrimination, a command and control management style, and disempowering micromanagement are examples,” writes the columnist.
People want to have real, candid discussion about their professional lives. “While LinkedIn serves as a great resume, it is not a place to have conversations. “So much of social media is focused on self-promotion. We saw a need to create a platform for support, advice, or guidance,” says Loren Appin, co-founder and COO of Fishbowl, a social network that provides a safe space where professionals in the same industry can feel comfortable receiving advice or help from their professional peers and colleagues.
Fishbowl has gained considerable traction since it launched in 2017 and while the numbers of people who use it are not available, there is a steady stream of conversation on the app. Fishbowl serves employees who work in consulting, advertising and accounting and just recently, opened a group for educators.
The platform is organized into groups, which are closed, so people can be candid. Many groups are broad enough in scope that young professionals can engage C-Suite leaders on topics important to them without being identified.
In the Kantar study, only 26% of employees felt any actions were being taken to address mental health issues. As younger generations make their way into leadership, and Boomers step aside, the dynamics may change. In general, younger generations are more open to asking for help and talking openly (with people they trust) about their problems, says DaSilva. 

        Who Are The Most Open Leaders?
      
Simon Fenwick, 4A's executive vice president of talent, equity and Inclusion says that trust between employees and managers still isn't where it needs to be for more people to disclose their mental health challenges—before or after they are hired. Fenwick sets an example for others. During his own job interviews, he is comfortable being candid about his OCD. When I asked him why, he explained, "I am open with my diagnosis and I want to share it with people because it is part of what makes me unique," he says, adding "It also frees me to be more of who I am and to be more productive. I don't think of it as an illness, although it seems we still live in a society that does." 
Female workers seem to believe most in the power of being open and supportive in general. In the study, 79% of people believed women are being supportive of each other in the workplace and 50% said they feel more confident with a woman mentoring them in the workplace. Many women see work life balance as ideal but largely unattainable. The pressure they are under shows: Women who work full time are 25% more likely to experience anxiety and 38% more likely to experience depression.
The struggle is real—and fear of absolutely combusting from stress leads many people to find a loyal confidant who can understand common issues, like how to have a tough conversation about a raise or dealing with the fallout when a co-worker has been fired. “Sometimes talking things through with others is all you need, especially when the person on the other side gets it because they are in your industry and know the issues,” says Appin. Leaders are effectively being cut out of those important conversations. The ones that could change company culture. That disconnect allows stigma and shame to flourish, just as they always have.

        Mental Health Advice From An App? 
      
There are apps that are examining the evidence of peer support delivered via a smartphone on mental health outcomes, says Fortuna, such as PeerTECH. The evidence for using them is growing, but they are not a replacement for medical professionals. Apps are best used in addition to counseling and can be helpful for tracking moods and medications, answering basic questions or journaling feelings.
There is a rating system for apps by the American Psychiatric Association (APA). Before offering any ratings, the APA cautions that these apps target myriad mental health conditions but almost all have not been rigorously studied and they are not regulated by the FDA.  The APA also cautions, again, that the goal of the APA smartphone app rating workgroup is not to report if a particular app is right for you and your patient. The rating is useful for giving health experts a guide to their safety, privacy and reliability when used in combination with traditional talk therapy. The best apps have a hotline to refer emergency cases to qualified medical help.
Still, studies show that too few Americans even ask for the help they need and an estimated 60 million, do not get professional help.  Employers know that and many are working to create healthier workplaces. In past posts, I’ve explored employer initiatives and look forward to seeing them grow.
