
# Birmingham and Black Country hospitals cancelled hundreds of operations

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:14:30+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Walker, https://www.facebook.com/JonWalkerPolitics?pnref=story**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/birmingham-black-counry-hospitals-cancelled-17199702)

Birmingham and Black Country hospitals cancelled hundreds of operations over the past three years.
The figures were published by Labour, who called them “a shameful indictment of a decade of Tory cutbacks running our NHS into the ground”.
But hospital managers urged politicians not to use the NHS as a political weapon during the general election campaign.
Chris Hopson, the Chief Executive of NHS Providers, said: “It becomes counter-productive when the NHS is used as a political weapon. Frontline NHS leaders are worried that is already starting to happen in this election.”
NHS Providers is the body that represents organisations providing healthcare including hospital trusts.
Data gathered by Labour through Freedom of Information requests showed that Birmingham Women and Children’s Hospital cancelled 1,002 operations over three years for non-clinical reasons. This includes the 2018-19 financial year, 2017-18 and 2016-17.
 
Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust cancelled 416 operations and Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs City Hospital in Birmingham, cancelled 1,066.
University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, which runs hospitals including the Queen Elizabeth, Good Hope, Heartlands and Solihull, did not provide figures.
Nationwide, 78,981 operations were cancelled last year. All the operations were either classed as urgent or were elective operations cancelled at the last minute – either on the day the patient was due to arrive in hospital or after they had already arrived.
Labour sent Freedom of Information requests to all acute hospital trusts in England to ask them to provide the total number of operations cancelled for non-clinical reasons, broken down by the cause of the cancellation. 82 per cent of hospital trusts responded.
 
Jonathan Ashworth, Labour’s Shadow Health and Social Care Secretary, said: “That so many more people in pain and distress are forced to endure cancelled operations, including increasingly on the day they were supposed to have treatment, is a shameful indictment of a decade of Tory cutbacks running our NHS into the ground.
“The simple truth is under the Tories, patients wait longer and longer for vital care. This general election is about the future of the NHS and ensuring quality care for all.
“Labour will fully fund our NHS, recruit the doctors and nurses we need and safeguard our NHS from a Trump deal sell off that could cost the NHS £500 million a week.”
 
A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: “We want patients across the country to get world class care in world class facilities and are investing £33.9 billion into our NHS to ensure that our health service is always delivering for those who need it.
“We are also supporting the NHS with an additional £4.6 billion in capital funding to upgrade buildings and equip staff to treat more people on the day, helping to free up vital hospital beds.”
 
Health and Social Care spending in the UK is up from £116.8bn per year in 2009/10, when the Conservatives came to power (initially in coalition with the Liberal Democrats) to £132.9bn in 2019/20. The figures have been adjusted for inflation and show a real-terms increase in funding.
Think tank the Kings Fund says that funding has increased under the Tories, but more slowly than it increased in the past. It said: “Budgets rose by 1.5 per cent each year on average in the 10 years between 2009/10 to 2018/19, compared to the 3.7 per cent average rises since the NHS was established.”
