
# Using string tied to cell, he recorded women in bathrooms

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Praveen Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/using-string-tied-to-cell-he-recorded-women-in-bathrooms/articleshow/71945884.cms)

A 20-year-old pervert who was noticed recording a woman when she was in the shower has been arrested by the police. The accused was staying in the building adjacent to the victim and went to great lengths, literally and figuratively, to record his victim in the shower. According to police reports, he would go to the terrace of his building, hang his phone by a string and let it hover near the victim’s bathroom window to record her bathing. The incident happened near Jigani on Hosur Road. The accused has been identified as Masida Barwa, a resident of Vidyanagar in Bommasandra on the Hosur Road. He is a native of Assam and works as a cook and reportedly stays in the adjacent building of the 29-year-old victim, a native of Kerala. The victim filed a police complaint on Saturday accusing Barwa of recording her while she was in the shower. The victim, who is a house wife stays on the first floor of the residential complex along with her husband, a private firm employee. “Around 11 am in the morning, when the victim was in the shower, she was a mobile hanging by a string from the neighbouring building, pointing at her bathroom. When the victim noticed it, she raised an alarm. This alerted the victim who pulled back his phone and retreated into his house. The victim reported the matter to her building owner. When the accused was confronted, he denied having recorded anything on his mobile phone. The woman was suspicious because of his creepy behaviour. As he had already deleted the recordings, he confidently told them to check his mobile phone for videos,” said an officer on part of investigations. But the victim had managed to see the colour of the mobile cover and had also observed that the mobile had a slightly bigger camera. “Unable to pinpoint him, the victim approached us and filed a complaint. To ensure that we were not after an innocent person, the others residing in the building were also questioned. The woman’s observation about the mobile phone made the police question him. He initially denied it, but later confessed after he was subjected to a thorough interrogation. He admitted to recording a 30-second video and out of fear of getting caught he deleted the recordings,” the officer said. The police seized his mobile phone sent it to FSL to retrieve the deleted video. The police are not ruling out the possibility of the accused being a habitual offender and having recorded similar videos of other women. They are waiting for the report from FSL to check if he was in the habit of doing this with other women. The Hebbagodi police have registered a case under section 67 of Information Technology Act of 2008 and capturing image of a woman (IPC 354C). Further investigations are on.
