
# Review: Luigi's Mansion 3

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CJ Andriessen**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/review-luigi-s-mansion-3-570488.phtml)

In 2014, Next Level Games announced it would be working with Nintendo exclusively on its future projects. For fans of its games, the move made sense. Next Level Games has a rich history of creating outstanding products with Nintendo at its side, but on its own or working with other publishers, it's actually put out some pretty awful titles. Nintendo and Next Level Games is a partnership that works, and there is no better example of the boundless creativity of their collaboration than Luigi’s Mansion 3.

        Luigi's Mansion 3 (Nintendo Switch)
        
        Developer: Next Level Games
        
        Publisher: Nintendo
        
        Released: October 31, 2019
        
        MSRP: $59.99
      
After having to trek through dirty, dingy, and dangerous mansions in his previous two outings, Luigi has earned himself a vacation. Traveling with Mario, Peach, a couple of Toads, and his beloved Polterpup, Luigi heads to the country for some rest and relaxation at The Last Resort, a massive hotel that glistens with gold and is completely free of cobwebs. Unfortunately for Luigi and the rest of his crew, this won’t be a restful vacation as it’s quickly revealed that Hellen Gravely, the proprietor of this establishment, is working with art-aficionado King Boo to once again trap his enemies in paintings. After discovering the new Poltergust G-00 and freeing a captured Professor E. Gadd, Luigi sets out to find his friends and catch any ghosts that float in his way.
Only this time, he doesn’t have to do it alone. Not long into the story, E. Gadd upgrades the G-00, giving Luigi access to Gooigi. This gives players the option of turning this single-player adventure into a couch co-op experience. You have the choice of limiting your control options by splitting the Joy-Con for co-op or the second player can join with their own controller. While the addition of Gooigi to the Luigi's Mansion mythos makes co-op an obvious inclusion, it's clear throughout the campaign this is designed to primarily be a single-player quest. Co-op is a welcomed addition, sure, but not what I consider to be the ideal way to experience Luigi's Mansion 3.
Both Luigi and Gooigi have access to the same tools of the Poltergust, including the suck and blow features, the Strobulb, the dark light, the suction shot, the burst, and the slam attack. The latter three tools are new for Luigi’s Mansion 3 and are essential to defeating the different types of ghosts you’ll encounter. Some protect themselves with shields, others wear their sunglasses at night. Knowing which tool is required for the right situation will keep you from losing too much health as you find your way through this wretched resort. They’re also necessary for solving the many inventive puzzles the developers have cooked up. Most puzzles give players unlimited chances to solve them, but a choice few result in instant death if you’re unable to find the solution in time.
