
# Overwatch 2 follows Fortnite and Destiny in reshaping the video game sequel

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Nick Statt**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/6/20951737/overwatch-2-video-game-sequel-update-expansion-fortnite-destiny-2?utm_campaign=theverge&utm_content=chorus&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter)

Game developer Blizzard found itself faced with a seemingly impossible task: how do you develop a sequel to something that’s never supposed to end? It’s a predicament that’s becoming increasingly common in the game industry. Some of the most popular titles today are created to be living entities that exist for months or years and change over time, but hardly ever into something resembling a brand-new product.
That’s the predicament the studio found itself in with Overwatch, the competitive team shooter with more than 50 million players worldwide and a successful e-sports league heading into its third year. Yet last week, Blizzard took the wraps off Overwatch 2, a sort of hybrid between your standard online game expansion and a full-blown sequel. With Overwatch 2, the original game doesn’t disappear or get relegated to the bench. Instead, the first game is being merged with its sequel to create a kind of shared game universe. It could potentially represent a new type of video game sequel — but there are a lot of rather complicated caveats involved.
For instance, if you buy the sequel — there’s no price tag yet, and we’re months or perhaps even a full year away from a release date — you’ll get Blizzard’s new Overwatch narrative co-op mode. That mode is being pitched as the main draw. But if you already own Overwatch and don’t want the story mode, you’ll still get revamped character designs, new maps, new heroes, and access to the all-new competitive multiplayer mode Push. In other words, you won’t get left behind, at least not completely. That also has the effect of keeping intact the Overwatch League, which was built on the first game’s signature competitive, 12-player multiplayer.
