
# Corporate Corner: UBL president and CEO awarded honorary doctorate by Kingston University

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:17:55+00:00**

Author: **Press Release**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2092954/1-ubl-president-ceo-awarded-honorary-doctorate-kingston-university/)

President and CEO UBL Sima Kamil has been conferred a prestigious honorary degree of ‘Doctor of the University Honoris Causa’ by the Kingston University in London.
The doctorate was awarded to Sima Kamil for her outstanding contribution to diversity in business leadership, at a graduation ceremony of the Faculty of Business and Social Sciences held at the university recently. She is a Kingston University alumna.
Vice Chancellor of Kingston University Professor Steven Spier while commenting on the occasion, said: “We are delighted and honoured to count Ms Sima Kamil as one of our esteemed community of Honorary Graduates. Ms Kamil’s career and extraordinary success are an inspiration to all of our students, to have achieved what she has achieved in the culture in which she lives is impressive. She is a role model for aspiring women in business.”
Sima Kamil has led an illustrious career in senior positions in the field of banking and is currently the president and CEO of UBL – a leading bank of Pakistan.
While receiving her degree she said that this is a singular honour. She talked about how her career in banking has been challenging and exciting and advised the students at the ceremony to work hard, be prepared, take risks and grab opportunities.
