
# KW Philippines opens major real estate hub in Cavite

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:21:45+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/04/kw-philippines-opens-major-real-estate-hub-in-cavite/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
After launching Keller Williams (KW) Philippines in 2017, the world’s largest real estate franchise by agent count marked another milestone recently with the opening of its Cavite Market Center on Monday, September 9 in addition to its over 950 market centers across the globe. The launch marked KW Philippines’ first franchise in Southern Mega Manila, after opening its NCR market centers in Quezon City and Makati earlier this year. 
The KW Cavite Market Center aims to further develop its real estate agents’ skills via relevant in-house trainings that intend to upgrade their opportunities for more lucrative careers in the real estate industry, while providing a fully equipped workstation for more streamlined real estate business operations for its associates.
Prior to the launch, KW has intensively collaborated with various broker groups based in Cavite and Las Piñas, Parañaque, and Muntinlupa to ensure the new market center’s position as a major real estate hub in the South.
“The new KW Market Center in Bacoor will cover the whole province of Cavite,” shared KW Cavite Market Center Operating Principal Margaret Yung. “It will mainly be a hub for KW’s associate trainings so our real estate practitioners may experience KW’s unique value propositions, company culture, how to profit, the latest technologies, and how we apply all of these in the KW business model,” she added.
Along with Yung, the event was also attended by KW Philippines Regional Operating Principal Rolando C. Acuesta; KW Cavite Market Center Team Leader Tet Santos, along with KW Market Center associates, Regional Team members, and prospective recruits.
“The Cavite launch is the 7th KW Philippines market center in the country with the support and leadership from industry experts who have over four decades of experience in residential, commercial and leisure property developments,” said Acuesta. “The new market center will finally provide a venue for our accredited KW Associates in Southern Mega Manila to better access and serve the booming office and residential property market in Cavite,” he added.
KW Cavite Market Center is located at Lot 9965, Molino Road, Molino, Bacoor, Cavite.
For more details on KW Philippines, visit www.kwphilippines.com.
