
# Sleeping boy, 3, dies after being stabbed multiple times by 'mum's ex-boyfriend'

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:24:24+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/sleeping-boy-3-dies-after-20800475)

A  sleeping toddler has died after being stabbed multiple times by his mother's ex-boyfriend in Winnipeg, Canada.
Three-year-old Hunter Haze Straight-Smith suffered severe brain damage during the brutal attack on Wednesday and was put on life support.
He was taken off the machine, breathed for a while and died on Saturday at Health Sciences Centre, aunt Roxanna Moar told CBC News .
The tragic incident came after mum Clarice Smith had an altercation with her ex-boyfriend, Daniel Jensen, 33, on Main Street.
 
Jensen is not Hunter's biological father, it is reported.
Police said Jensen walked to Clarice's home on Pritchard Avenue and attacked Hunter, who was sleeping at the time.
Clarice also suffered a number of injuries during the attack, the officers said.
They said she had been on and off with her ex-boyfriend Daniel Jensen, 33, for about six months and Jensen was under a court order not to contact Clarice.
Court records show he was charged with assault with a weapon and uttering threats to Clarice in July.
On Thursday, he was charged with attempted murder and assault causing bodily harm, and six counts of failing to comply with conditions of a recognizance and failing to comply with a probation order.
Bianca Smith, one of Hunter's aunts wrote in a Facebook post: "My life forever changed.
"I don't think this even hit me yet and I don't know how I'm gonna handle this when this does."
Tributes from Hunter's family and friends have poured in and held two vigils in support of the child.
Const. Rob Carver said in a press conference: "The family has to live with that every day and will for the rest of their lives.
"People in the community who may not even have known the individual but live there are traumatised when they know someone's been killed on their block or their street or their community.
"I think it touches everyone who hears about it in different ways."
