
# Cupra Ateca Comfort and Sound review – SUV is full of surprises

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:33:08+00:00**

Author: **John Murdoch**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/cupra-ateca-comfort-sound-review-20828598)

SEAT recently made Cupra a standalone brand in an effort to make its hot products more desirable.
Previously used for sports versions of the Ibiza and Leon, the Cupra name will now be attached to all the stable’s sports models and sold through specialist dealers. First to get the treatment is the Cupra Ateca and, although it is clear the ordinary Ateca SUV is the donor car, there is not a SEAT badge in sight.
That won’t succeed in fooling most people who will quickly realise that the newcomer is basically a repackaged Ateca with some sports add-ons and a smashing engine nicked from the Leon Cupra and the VW Golf GTI.
I sampled it recently in Comfort and Sound trim and found the engine transformed the Cupra Ateca into a real performer.
And it is the Cupra’s performance and driving dynamics that ensured it picked up the Sports gong, even though it is an SUV, from the Association of Scottish Motoring Writers at the 2019 Scottish Car of the Year (SCOTY) Awards.
The turbocharged 2.0-litre TSI petrol engine produces 300PS smoothly and is capable of an astonishing 152mph. It can tackle the sprint to 62mph in just 4.9 seconds, making it one of the quickest in its class.
The four-wheel-drive system combined with other technical changes results in the Cupra providing incredible grip and it is really fun to drive.
There are six driving modes to choose from – Normal, Sport, Cupra, Snow, Off-Road and Individual – but Cupra is the most aggressive, making the steering and throttle response sharper and the gear shifts quicker, as well as making the exhaust note louder for a real hot-hatch feel.
The seven-speed DSG automatic gearbox works well and the car’s pace, firm ride and great handling combine to prove that the Cupra is more than an Ateca with a body-kit, fresh badges and a quad exhaust system.
The Cupra Ateca View gallery    
Built in the Czech Republic alongside the regular SEAT Ateca models, the Cupra has an adaptive sports suspension and offers lots of kit.
All Cupra Atecas sit on 19in alloys and have LED headlamps as standard, while inside they are trimmed in Alcantara and come with a digital instrument display and an eight-inch touchscreen that includes sat nav.
To add to the sporting feel, there are a number of logos in the cabin and there’s also a vehicle information display that includes the likes of G-force meters, turbo boost and other sporty features.
The car is fully smartphone compatible and also has a full array of driver aids including blind spot monitors, lane departure warnings and rear cross traffic alerts.
The Comfort and Sound trim adds a BeatsAudio sound system, adaptive cruise control, electric tailgate, heated front seats and high beam assist over the comprehensive list of standard goodies.
Fuel economy is officially rated at 31.7 to 32.5mpg and you’ll get pretty close to this even if you are tempted to use all the power on tap.
The Cupra is almost as practical as the normal Ateca but the boot space falls to 485 litres because of the four-wheel-drive system and, as the car sits lower, it feels less like an SUV.
The rear sits can still split and fold 60:40 to increase luggage space and there is also a ski hatch to help with longer items. The Cupra is not cheap, with prices starting at £36,695 and rising to £41,910 before you start ticking options but it is still a great drive for the money.
