
# Is Christchurch, New Zealand The Next Big American Tourist Destination?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brad Japhe**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bradjaphe/2019/10/31/is-christchurch-new-zealand-the-next-big-american-tourist-destination/)

This week American Airlines announced the first ever direct flight service between the US and Christchurch. Beginning in October of 2020 the carrier will embark on the 13-hour voyage three times a week. The announcement comes on the heels of record-setting tourism between the two parts of the world. “The commercial success of our Auckland–LAX route due to American’s love of New Zealand means it has been one of our best performing routes world-wide,” said Shane Hodges, Managing Director of Asia Pacific Sales for the airline. “Americans have long had a love affair with the beauty that New Zealand offers, from wildlife and wineries, to hiking and cruises.” And the South Island of the country flaunts all those elements in spades. With easier access to the region, you can expect a lot more American accents to be popping up in kiwi country by this time next year. If you anticipate being among them, it’s best to start planning ahead. Here’s some helpful advice on how to assemble your ultimate Christchurch itinerary.
Serenely set at the foot of Hagley Park (the city’s largest), The George is the only five-star boutique hotel in all of Christchurch. To earn the accolade the property maintains spacious, well-appointed rooms featuring terraces and garden views. Off from the lobby are not one, but two award winning eateries: 50 Bistro and Pescatore. Tying it all up in a nice bow is a warm sense of kiwi hospitality. Here you benefit from a one-to-one ratio between staff and guests. Rooms start at $325 USD per night.

        50 Park Terrace, Christchurch Central City, Christchurch 8013
      
The New Regent Street promenade has evolved in something of a culinary hub over the past five years. Looming two flights of stairs above the bustle is this charming husband-and-wife-owned hideaway. The menu flexes with the seasons but always demonstrates a fine rustic flair. Farm-raised Tai Tapu venison–a year-round staple–arrives far more tender than its gamier, wild counterparts. The meat is enlivened under the aid of red currant & onion chutney and a brandy reduction. Well-trained waitstaff pair it deftly alongside New Zealand wine by the glass. And don’t skip dessert. The pastry chef here works wonders.

        16 New Regent St, Christchurch Central City, Christchurch 8011
      
Across the street from the restaurant, beside the ceaseless queues of Rollickin’ Gelato, you’ll find this temple of tipples. If you fancy yourself a whisky fan, prepare to have your spirits lifted. Over 500 bottles of the liquid is stacked high across five shelves that reach the ceiling. While it certainly qualifies for the widest selection of scotch in the South Island, you might want to resist the urge to sip on what you already know in favor of exploring the unknown. The bar holds many fine examples from New Zealand’s bourgeoning aged spirits industry. Admire the bold flavors of Oamaruvian–a single malt that spent time maturing in barrels that once held South Island red wine. Sip on some younger stuff from Cardrona Distillery. Or enjoy local liquid from The Spirits Workshop, made just south of downtown Christchurch.

        31 New Regent St, Christchurch Central City, Christchurch 8011
      
Although it’s the most populated city in the South Island, outdoor adventure in Christchurch is always at your fingertips. You can take the gondola up the slopes of Mount Cavendish, ride a mountain bike through the neighboring Port Hills, or go punting on the Avon for a better sense of why this place is nicknamed the ‘Garden City’. Regardless of your intended activity level, Chill has got you covered. The downtown outfitter operates guided and self-guided tours on road bikes as well as electric ones. Tailored experiences can steer you through heritage sites, culinary destinations, street art and architecture tours, depending on personal preference. Contact them directly for reservations and rates.

        Ground Floor, Awly Building. 287 Durham St North, Christchurch
      
