
# IPL 2019 | Delhi Capitals to announce Ravichandran Ashwin's signing soon

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:33:27+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/ipl-2019-delhi-capitals-to-announce-ravichandran-ashwins-signing-soon?utm_medium=rss)


        Sources from IPL franchise Delhi Capitals have confirmed that the deal for Kings XI Punjab skipper Ravichandran Ashwin has been completed and will be announced soon. KXIP owner Ness Wadia had earlier denied selling Ashwin but with his departure, KL Rahul is likely to receive the reigns of captaincy.
      
Ravichandran Ashwin will be a part of the Delhi Capitals squad from the next edition of the Indian Premier League and his signing has been confirmed by officials speaking to IANS. Ashwin had led KXIP very well in the first half of each of the last two seasons of the IPL but was unable to help them qualify for the play-offs due to a losing streak in the second half. With the likes of Amit Mishra already present with the Capitals, Ashwin seems to be a valuable addition to the franchise.
"Yes, it is done and we will announce soon," the DC official told IANS.
Anil Kumble had recently been appointed as the head of cricket operations by KXIP and when asked about Ashwin, he had said that he was not too sure about the exact situation as he was newly appointed.
"No decision has been taken yet. I have just come on board, in the last one week. We will know in due course the decisions we are going to make. I haven't got down to the details of the squad. The players we are going to retain, the players we are going to trade, none of those areas have been looked into," Kumble had said.
Having already sold Axar Patel to Delhi last season, Ashwin’s departure will surely create a huge void in Punjab’s spin department and the think tank would like to sign some experienced spinner in the auction. On the other hand, Delhi now have three spinners who have the experience of playing for India, giving them fantastic depth in the spin department.
Ashwin’s exit has also indicated that KL Rahul is likely to be named as the new captain of the Punjab-based franchise.
"Yes, that is very much a possibility because Rahul is not only one of the senior players, but also understands the working of the team and the strengths and weaknesses of those in the team," a source from the team told TOI.
