
# Everton issue Andre Gomes injury update as Marco Silva receives major boost

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:42:06+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/everton-issue-andre-gomes-injury-20833332)

Everton boss Marco Silva has confirmed Andre Gomes could return before the end of the season.
Gomes suffered a fractured and dislocated ankle during Sunday's 1-1 draw with Tottenham at Goodison Park after a late challenge from Son Heung-min.
There were initial fears the Portuguese midfielder would be out of action for up to a year with the injury.
Gomes has since undergone successful surgery and ahead of his side's vital clash with Southampton , Silva said: "It is not easy to give a sure date about when he will return.
"But the feedback from medical staff is, it is possible we will see him playing again this season.
"It looks like a really serious injury, but everything went really well and we hope we can see him playing again this season."
Son confirmed he had text Gomes about the injury with his red card later rescinded by the FA.
Silva added: "Of course it was the toughest moment for Andre and the other players on the pitch.
"For the two players involved it was really tough as well. What is most important is to give Andre all the support he needs in this moment.”
Everton head to Southampton in 17th in the table, just three points ahead of their opponents.
Their task has been made harder with Fabien Delph struggling with injury, depleting Silva's midfield options even further.
Morgan Schneiderlin is expected to return for the Toffees but Silva has not ruled out giving youngster Anthony Gordon a chance.
