
# Michael Owen and Peter Schmeichel in heated TV debate over Ole Gunnar Solskjaer

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:26:41+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/michael-owen-peter-schmeichel-heated-20802682)

Former Manchester United players Michael Owen and Peter Schmeichel were involved in a heated studio debate over Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's role as Red Devils manager on Saturday.
United went down 1-0 at Bournemouth to slide down to 10th place in the Premier League table having won just three of their 11 top-flight games this season.
Solskjaer is facing mounting pressure on his role at Old Trafford, and the two ex-United players - who were working on the game as pundits for Premier League Productions - disagree over his progress as a manager ever since he replaced Jose Mourinho in the hotseat in December last year.
"I’m a patient person myself but if Jurgen Klopp or if Pep Guardiola were manager of Manchester United , then I’m certain you would have seen a huge improvement with what they’ve got,” said Owen, who spent three years at Old Trafford between 2009 and 2012.
"You look at the other two teams - Guardiola and Klopp get the best (out of them).
"You name a player out of those two squads that hasn’t got better under the management, under the guidance of them.”
However Schmeichel, who won five Premier League titles with United, says that Klopp and Guardiola have been working with a more talented squad.
“I have to disagree a little bit with that," he said.
"I think Jurgen Klopp, he’s got very, very few players in his team that were there when he started. He’s got (Jordan) Henderson..."
Owen then replied with: “What was Henderson like five years ago? Everyone was laughing him out of town, now everyone’s saying he’s world class."
Schmeichel then reiterated his idea that the Manchester City and Liverpool managers have the benefit of time on their side.
“(That’s) five years in," he continued.
"Now, Guardiola in the first year wasn’t great, people forgot that. He changed the whole back five, he didn’t play (Vincent) Kompany in the second year, didn’t play him at all.
"Obviously he came back in the third year but he changed the whole back five, he bought players like Bernardo Silva in. He has changed that team a lot and it has taken him time to get to that point.
"Now, Ole’s starting point was nowhere near what Guardiola came into Manchester City with."
Liverpool and City remain the top two in the Premier League, and meet at Anfield next weekend.
