
# IND vs BAN | Delhi air shouldn't be a problem, claims Rohit Sharma

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:33+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/ind-vs-ban-delhi-air-shouldnt-be-a-problem-claims-rohit-sharma?utm_medium=rss)


        Indian stand-in T20I Captain Rohit Sharma said that although there is a lot of talk about the air pollution level in Delhi, he sees no problem in playing and is sure that the game will be played. India are set to play Bangladesh in the first T20I at Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi on November 3.
      
There has been a lot of talk about the venue for the first T20I between India and Bangladesh being shifted because of the severe level of air pollution in Delhi. One of the Bangladesh players Liton Das was seen practising wearing an anti-pollution mask. Amidst all of this talk, Rohit Sharma feels that the game should be carried out with no interruption as he believes that the air pollution level in Delhi right now is under control.
"I have just landed and haven't had time to assess. As far as I know, the game is to be played on November 3 and will be played," Rohit said at an event attended by the TOI.
"We didn't have any problems when we played the Test match here (against Sri Lanka). We are not aware of the exact discussion and I haven't had any problem," he added.
There have been complaints in the past regarding the air pollution level in Delhi. The one which Rohit pointed out happened in the Delhi Test in the 2017 Sri Lanka's tour of India, where the Sri Lankan players wore masks while fielding in order to show their distress over the high pollution level. But the Indian team did not feel the same and they felt that the playing conditions were good enough to not cause any health problems to any player.
The Indian team share the same feeling this time around too but the Bangladesh players might take an objection about the pollution level after seeing Liton Das wearing a face mask while training.
BCCI President Sourav Ganguly has announced that the game will take place in Delhi itself despite the talk about severe pollution levels. 
Pollution in Delhi is due to many factors like recently concluded Diwali, stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab, etc. Other Bangladeshi players were not seen wearing any masks during training although a thick smog layer was visible over the Stadium. This is a positive sign and hopefully, the game will be hosted without any intervention or harm to the players' health.
