
# BTS, Post Malone And Michael Jackson: 5 Noteworthy Moves On This Week’s Billboard 200

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Hugh McIntyre**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2019/11/04/bts-post-malone-and-michael-jackson-5-noteworthy-moves-on-this-weeks-billboard-200/)

Millions of Americans are focused on listening to Post Malone’s newest album Hollywood’s Bleeding, but clearly they haven’t moved on from his previous projects, as he owns a lot of real estate close to the top of the Billboard 200 this frame (and seemingly every frame). Behind the hip-hop star, a Latin pop favorite finally debuts her first full-length on the chart while the biggest name in K-pop returns and one of the most successful artists ever reaches a rare milestone.
Here are five albums that made big moves on the Billboard 200 chart this week.

        No. 33 - Post Malone - Stoney
      
Last week, Post Malone’s third and most recent album Hollywood’s Bleeding bounced back to No. 1, and it’s still technically ruling the Billboard 200, as the chart doesn’t refresh until tomorrow (though the new leader, Kanye West’s Jesus Is King, has already been named). At the same time, his debut full-length Stoney, which quickly turned him into a household name, celebrates 150 weeks on the tally, and it’s still inside the top 40 at No. 33 this time around.
Amazingly, his only other album, 2018’s Beerbongs & Bentleys, is currently at No. 15, giving him three simultaneous top 40 projects at once.

        No. 35 - Cody Jinks - The Wanting
      
Country singer-songwriter Cody Jinks didn’t gift his fans with one new album this year, but two, and he only separated them by a single week. Last frame, Jinks’ release After the Fire debuted at No. 33, and this time around, his even newer title The Wanting starts just two rungs lower at No. 35. 
Jinks has now charted four top 40 albums on the Billboard 200, and two in the past month, which is something only a handful of musicians can claim to have done in their careers.

        No. 84 - BTS - Map of the Soul: Persona
      
BTS’s 2019 album Map of the Soul: Persona was already one the band’s most successful, but now it’s back on the tally, adding more frames to its already impressive total. The title, which debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 earlier this year, returns thanks to the release a new version of album cut “Make It Right,” which now features American pop singer Lauv. That track quickly made its way to the Hot 100, and it helped push the full-length back onto the albums ranking as well.

        No. 85 - Becky G - Mala Sanata
      
Becky G has been dropping singles for at least six years now, and she has only just released her debut album, Mala Sanata. Throughout her career, the singer has shared both English-language and Spanish-language tracks that could be called pop, and her first full-length is primarily comprised of the latter. The set opens at No. 85, which is a bit low for someone who has been working for so long with major label support.

        No. 126 - Michael Jackson - The Essential Michael Jackson
      
His legacy may be mired in controversy, but that hasn’t kept Americans from buying Michael Jackson’s compilation of some of his biggest hits. The 38-song set, which was originally released in 2005, is comfortable at No. 126 this time around, earning its three hundredth week on the Billboard 200 in the process. 300 frames on the chart is impressive for any musician, but it’s almost unsurprising when it comes to somebody as big as Jackson.
