
# RMT union announces 27 days of South Western Railway strikes in December

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:26:45+00:00**

Author: **Joe Curtis**

Original: [City A.M.](https://www.cityam.com/rmt-union-announces-27-days-of-south-western-railway-strikes-in-december/)

Train staff on a major London rail network are preparing to down tools for 27 days throughout December, amid a long-running dispute that threatens to wreck commuters’ Christmas holidays.
The Rail and Maritime Transport (RMT) union accused rail operator South Western Railway (SWR) of failing to give assurances that train guards will be kept on under a new operational model. 

        Read more: 
        TfL ‘can’t rule out’ Thor’s hammer as cause of huge London Overground delays
      
Drivers and guards will strike from 2 December until the New Year, only stopping for a brief period around the General Election on 12 December and for Christmas Day and Boxing Day, when trains do not run anyway.
SWR claimed the union was showing a “lack of concern” for customers, after RMT general secretary Mick Cash said they had been “left with no choice” but to call the strikes.
RMT General Secretary Mick Cash said members had been “left with no choice” but to call the strikes. 
“At the last meeting we held with SWR principles in agreements were made in good faith with the company’s negotiating team and we now feel hugely let down again. As long as the company continues to refuse to give assurances on the future operational role of the guard we will remain in dispute,” said the union boss, who confirmed they would remain available for talks.
But SWR hit back, claiming the union was showing a “lack of concern” for customers. 
The dispute is over having guards on trains, an issue on which the operator said RMT is making a “misguided attempt to hold power over the industry”. The union wants to keep a guard on every passenger train.

        Read more: 
        RMT accuses Sadiq Khan of Tory cuts stitch up
      
David Lutton, director of connectivity and competitiveness at London First, said: “This strike will hit the capital’s businesses hard during their busiest time of year, along with commuters and families travelling home for Christmas or New Year’s Eve.
“We urge all parties to stay at the table and reopen talks, rather than resorting to strike action that damages our capital’s economy and disrupts Londoners, commuters and visitors alike.”
Sean McKee, director of policy and public affairs, London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, added: “This prolonged strike action will be damaging to London, its businesses and economy.
“London businesses recognise the right to strike, but they want to see mitigations to the way in which unions carry out strikes.
“Avoidance of peak-time striking an example, or a minimum service guarantee.”
Previous strikes have taken place over shorter periods, but have forced South Western to cut roughly half of its timetabled services. A longer strike could lead to more serious upheaval in the busy pre-Christmas period.
South Western serves on average 600,000 passenger journeys every day, operating from London Waterloo – Britain’s busiest railway station. Trains run to regions such as Surrey and Hampshire, but even go as far as Exeter.

        Read more: 
        TfL is now running more Victoria Line trains at peak times
      
Anthony Smith, chief executive of watchdog Transport Focus, said the long-running dispute is “damaging trust in the railway”.
“Passengers have had enough of the on-going industrial action on South Western Railway services. They have faced lost time, money, more driving and deep frustration at not being able to rely on the trains.”
