
# We officially know when Harry Styles' new album is coming out, and we are so ready

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:59:41+00:00**

Author: **Alex Isaacs**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Music/News/we-officially-know-when-harry-styles-new-album-is-coming-out-and-we-are-so-ready-20191105)

   
Cape Town – A few weeks ago, Harry Styles released his long-awaited new single, Lights Up. 
It's a guitar-driven, upbeat tune that is a step toward a more contemporary sound than his previous work on his debut album, which contained the melancholy Sign of the Times.  
This more upbeat track gave fans hope that Harry's new album would be arriving soon and after what feels like an eternity the former One Direction member has finally let us know when his sophomore album will be released and its title.  
The 25-year-old revealed on Twitter that the album will be dropping on Friday 13 December and its title is Fine Line. 
Harry will celebrate the release of the album with a special event, titled Harry Styles – Fine Line Live at the Forum ­­– One Night Only, in Los Angeles on Friday, 13 December. 
Fans who pre-order Fine Line through his official store will gain exclusive access to pre-sale tickets, which will become available Thursday, 7 November.
Tickets will be available to the general public beginning Friday, 8 November. There is a 2 ticket maximum per purchase, and tickets will be mobile-only.
On 16 November, the singer is set to host NBC's Saturday Night Live for the first time and will perform new music from the album, along with the television performance debut of Lights Up.  
LOOK AT THE ALBUM COVER HERE: 
