
# Electronic Deals – November 4, 2019: Instant Pot, Logitech, Nikon & More

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:05:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-instant-pot-logitech-nikon-sale-holideals.html)

Amazon has discounted the Instant Pot Duo RED 60 down to just $59.99, as part of its Gold Box Deal of the Day today. This is a really great deal, and is actually going to make for a really great Christmas present next month, when the big day arrives.
Amazon has also brought back one of its most popular Gold Box Deals, which is on Logitech PC Gaming and productivity devices. So today, you can save up to 40% on select Logitech products. Including mice, keyboards and so much more. These are going to be great stocking stuffers this year and at a pretty great price.
Amazon is discounting a number of Nikon cameras and lenses right now, in its "Happy HoliDeals" event. Allowing you to save big on some great cameras on lenses. Including the Nikon D750 which is up to 15-percent off right now. There are some really good lenses on sale, like the Nikon 50mm f/1.8 lens, that is just $176 today – that's the same price as a used one!
Advertisement
This is probably the last time the Fire TV Stick 4K is going to be on sale before Black Friday, and it's unlikely to get much cheaper come Black Friday. You can save $10 off of it right now, picking it up for just $40. That is a really great price for the 4K model, and one of the cheaper 4K streaming sticks that you can buy. This also comes with the new Alexa voice remote, which now has volume buttons! So you can control things with Alexa through your TV now.
These deals are all available until midnight PST on the expiration date specified below. These prices are also as up-to-date as possible, but beware that prices will fluctuate throughout the day. For the latest deals from Amazon, you can check out their Deals page here.
