
# Students demand greater funding for further and higher education

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Doyle**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/students-demand-greater-funding-for-further-and-higher-education-1758440/)

STUDENTS have launched their own election manifesto demanding increased support for further and higher education and greater investment in the health service.
When Students Lead by the NUS-USI union urges parties to agree to more public spending and a commitment to equality and human rights.
It also calls for politicians to protect cross-border study and student mobility post-Brexit, including participation in EU's Erasmus+ scheme.
The union would also like "a fair immigration system for all migrants including international students", with post-study work visas lasting at least two years.
NUS-USI President Robert Murtagh told students that the forthcoming election was "one of the most significant" in the north's history.
"For students and young people, the repercussions will be felt most acutely. That's why students need to lead the debate and the best way to do that is by voting," Mr Murtagh said.
"Because when students lead the debate, they achieve great things, like the decriminalisation of abortion and legalisation of same-sex marriage. And when students vote, they vote for progressive change, a fairer society and opportunities for all."
Mr Murtagh added that Brexit remained unsolved and "as students we must keep banging the drum loud and proud against the hugely damaging effects that no deal would have on society".
"We must ensure there is no hard border between north and south, and I encourage all political parties contesting the election to realise the fragility of peace in NI," he said.
"So to those candidates that will seek our votes on 12 December, I urge you to listen to us to deliver a fairer society for everyone."
