
# 'Zlatan Should Return to Man Utd'

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:01:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/manchester-united/zlatan-should-return-to-man-utd/666554)

With Zlatan Ibrahimovic's contract at LA Galaxy expiring at the end of a year, a former Manchester United star believes the striker should return to Old Trafford.

        
          Read: Rashford Stunner Sends Chelsea Crashing Out
        
      
The 38-year-old was in fine form for Galaxy in Major League Soccer this season after netting 30 goals in 29 appearances.
However, the Swedish striker's season came to an end last week at the hands of City rivals Los Angeles FC in the Western Conference semi-finals.
Ibrahimovic has been linked with a return to Spain and Italy, but former United midfielder Paul Ince a return to Manchester could be good for both parties.
"Zlatan Ibrahimovic seemed to tease going back to Spain, then he’s been linked with staying in the MLS, and even Perth Glory," Ince told Paddy Power.
"But I think, if he wanted to, returning to Old Trafford would be the way to go.
"He’d be great at educating all of these young players that Ole is looking to bring through, an incredible off-pitch influence as well as on the field.
"They need someone who can control the changing room and be a true leader, and he fits that role. He can show the young players how it’s done. He would be the Godfather of United’s dressing room."

        
          Read: Reports: Man Utd Want The "New Pirlo"
        
      
