
# Walmart 'Black Friday' 2019: 5 Best Early Access Deals On HDTVs

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/05/walmart-black-friday-2019-5-best-early-access-deals-on-hdtvs/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

In recent years, retailers have been publishing some incredible Black Friday deals weeks ahead of the actual event. In fact, some would argue that the best time to buy electronics is at the beginning of November, thanks to all the early Black Friday deals.As one of the largest retailers on the planet, it's no great shock that Walmart has already started unveiling its early Black Friday deals, and the quality of the deals they're offering and the potential savings are unprecedented. We'll be taking a look at the best early access deals on TVs, for those who've been looking for an exceptional TV at an incredible price.

        Vizio 50-inch D-Series 4K TV
      
Vizio has been building some of the best TVs of the past few years, and that includes its ultra-affordable TVs, like those in the Vizio D-Series. The 50-inch Vizio D-Series TV may be cheap, but it still offers a 4K resolution, support for HDR and some super-smart features.
Notably, this TV is a full-fledged smart TV, offering Vizio’s SmartCast platform. With SmartCast, you can easily install all your favorite streaming apps and services, plus you can stream content from your phone or computer using AirPlay and Chromecast. It even integrates with your Apple HomeKit setup and supports control through Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa devices.
You might expect to pay a ton for these features — but this TV is now available ahead of Black Friday for $248, which is $180 off its normal price of $428.

        Shop Now: $248
      

        Sceptre 32-inch Class HD (720P) LED TV (X322BV-SR)
      
If you've been waiting to get into the HDTV game for less than $100, you might've been out of luck, even last year. Thankfully, the rising quality and interest in HDTVs has driven costs down to the point that respectable TVs can be found for a song.
The Sceptre 32-inch Class HD might seem small compared to the other HDTVs we've already listed. Stop and consider for a moment that until the last 10 years, even a 25-inch TV would've seemed monolithic. We are spoiled for choice. A 32-inch screen is more than big enough to enjoy your favorite movies, TV series and games without cropping or visual distortion.
The Sceptre 32-inch could be an ideal choice for people living in smaller spaces. Larger screens might dominate the entire room, where a 32-inch might tuck comfortably into your corner. It's also a good choice if you move semi-regularly, as larger monitors can be prohibitively heavy and awkward to move at times.
At only $87, you could buy a couple of these 720p and hand them out to all of your loved ones who are still stick streaming on their laptops or even, heaven forbid, their smartphones.

        Shop Now: $87
      

        Sony XBR55A8G OLED Bravia 4K TV
      
Have some cash to spend on a seriously great TV? The Sony XBR55A8G is definitely worth considering. This TV offers excellent image quality and some awesome smart features, plus it’s now available for $500 off its normal price.
TVs with OLED panels can display much deeper black levels, thanks to the fact that the TV can turn off individual pixels, rather than only being able to control the entire backlight or sections of the backlight. It’s all a little technical, but rest assured that you’ll get super deep black levels and bright colors. The TV also has Sony’s 4K HDR Processor X1 Extreme, which allows for even 1,080p content to look almost like it was made in 4K.
The TV is currently available for $1,498, which is over $500 off its normal price of $2,000, in the lead up to Black Friday.

        Shop Now: $1,498
      

        RCA 50-inch Class 4K (2160P) LED TV (RLDED5098-UHD)
      
If you're looking to experience the 4K revolution at HDTV prices, the RCA 50-inch Class 4K LED TV is your chance to do so. The RCA 50-inch supports playback of up to 2160p, double the rate of Blu-Ray quality HD.
The RCA 4K TV might not have all the built-in apps of other models we've mentioned, but it's got more than enough connectivity to handle even the most plugged-in living room.
The RCA 4K TV offers the chance to experience your favorite media in stunning, crisp HD without paying for all of the bells and whistles. If you're not afraid of an HDMI cord, you can watch your favorite movies and TV series at double HD quality for only $200, a 12 percent savings from the list price of $380.
HDTVs offer a chance to re-engage with your favorite movies, TV series, and video games. It's such a relief after decades of staring at tiny, compressed screens, squinting to make out the action let alone be moved by it.

        Shop Now: $200
      

        LG 60UM6950DUB 60-inch 4K TV
      
LG is another company that’s known for its high-end TVs, and some would argue that the company makes the best TVs on the planet. This particular deal is for one of LGs best TVs in the sub-$500 price range — and it can easily go head to head with many much more expensive options.
The TV offers a 4K resolution with support for HDR, meaning you’ll get bright, vivid colors and a very natural look. LG goes a step further here, however, with the inclusion of WebOS, which is the company’s much-loved TV operating system. WebOS is super easy to use, allows you to install all your favorite web apps, and is even compatible with Google Home and Amazon Alexa devices. The 60-inch display makes it more than good enough for most large living rooms too, which is always nice. 
Perhaps the best thing about this TV is its price — it’s available for $398, or over $100 off its normal price of $500.

        Shop Now: $398
      

        VIZIO 55-inch Class 4K Ultra HD
      
While the Vizio 43-inch Class FHD is a chance to break into the world of HDTVs on a budget, the Vizio 55-inch Class 4K Ultra HD is your chance to experience the highest of the high-end HDTVs at one of the best prices you'll find on the Internet.
The Vizio 55-inch Class 4K Ultra HD supports the highest resolution currently available, the ridiculous 2160p. Not only will you start to pick out reoccurring Hobbits watching "Lord Of The Rings," at that resolution, but you'll start feeling the heat of Mount Doom in Mordor.
The Vizio 55-inch also supports all Smart TV functions, same as the 43-inch Class FHD. It also supports Chromecast so you can use thousands of video and music playback apps just using your TV.
The 55-inch Class 4K Ultra HD is one of the most affordable 4K TVs you can find anywhere, online or otherwise, at $350 — a 28 percent savings from its list price.

        Shop Now: $350
      

        RCA 32-inch HD TV
      
If you’re simply looking for the cheapest TV that you can buy that still offers some image quality, then this TV may be the way to go. 
Sure, you won’t get a 4K resolution and a ton of smarts, but this TV still has some decent features. That’s especially true when you consider how much you would have paid for a similar TV only 5 years ago. Even though the TV is 32 inches, that’s still big enough to enjoy your favorite movies and TV shows, and that makes the RCA 32-inch LED HDTV a perfect choice for a smaller living room or as a secondary TV somewhere else in the house. 
Normally, the TV comes at $200 — but considering Walmart’s incredible pre-Black Friday deals, it’s available for $90. That’s $110, or 55 percent, off.

        Shop Now: $90
      

        LG C8 65-inch OLED TV
      
Perhaps you want the best of the best, in which case it’s worth considering the LG C8 series. This particular deal is for the 65-inch model of the TV, which is big enough for even larger living rooms. 
Like the Sony TV on this list, the LG C8 65-inch OLED TV offers an OLED panel, which helps make for a much better image quality. Unlike the Sony TV, this offering is 65 inches and has LG’s incredible a9 Intelligent Processor and LG’s WebOS. It has plenty of other smart features too, like Dolby Atmos. The TV looks great too — it has a razor-thin build, with plenty of ports for connecting all your gaming devices and external streaming devices.
The 65-inch LG C8 TV is now available for $1,969, which is a whopping $1,000 off its normal price of $2,997.

        Shop Now: $1,969
      
The Holiday deals are starting to come fast and furious, even in the first week of November! Whether you're looking to keep tabs on the best early access Black Friday deals on HDTVs or other tech products, or looking for authoritative product round-ups and reviews, we'll be bringing you extensive Black Friday coverage, each and every day.
Sign up for a Forbes blog account today, follow the blog, or subscribe to the RSS feed to keep up with the deals!
