
# Tron Network Total Accounts Pass 4 Million After Samsung Partnership

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:48:00+00:00**

Author: **William Suberg**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/tron-network-total-accounts-pass-4-million-after-samsung-partnership)

The total number of accounts generated on blockchain network Tron has exceeded 4 million, its CEO has said. 
In a tweet on Nov. 4, monitoring resource TRONSCAN announced that the network’s total account tally was now 4.015 million, a figure which Justin Sun subsequently broadcast.
The numbers do not distinguish whether an account is in use or dormant, and in the case of the latter, whether the inactivity is likely permanent.
For Bitcoin (BTC), different resources measuring active accounts produce varying results. According to Blockchain, there were just over 463,000 daily active Bitcoin addresses as of Nov. 1.
As such, in Tron’s case, the number of daily active accounts is likely to be smaller than the total created since the network’s inception. Nevertheless, Tron has seen millions of Tethers swapped to its blockchain from Ethereum in recent weeks. 
Sun has devoted considerable effort to expanding the profile of both Tron and its native token, TRX. As Cointelegraph reported, those efforts gained him unwanted attention this year after a run-in with Chinese authorities. 
Nonetheless, progress continues, with South Korean tech giant Samsung adding Tron support to its decentralized app store at the end of last month. Sun had previously hinted about the move, describing it as a deal with a “$100 billion megacorporation.” 
TRX is currently the eleventh-largest cryptocurrency by market cap, trading for just under 2 cents per token. The Samsung deal boosted TRX/USD by over 30%.
Rumors previously claimed Sun was in line to acquire cryptocurrency exchange Poloniex, something he subsequently denied.
