
# IoTSWC 2019 awards the solutions by Eiffage-Bioservo, Cartesiam.ai-éolane, Zyfra-Suek and GFT

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:46:07+00:00**

Author: **Eddie Mitchell**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/iotswc-2019-awards-the-solutions-by-eiffage-bioservo-cartesiam-ai-eolane-zyfra-suek-and-gft/)


        Eiffage together with Bioservo Technologies; Cartesiam.ai with éolane; and Zyfra with their work for SUEK have been the winning companies of the IoT Solutions Awards 2019 that the IoT Solutions World Congress convened and which recognise the best international projects developed in the field of industrial internet in the last year. These are a bionic glove that prevents muscle pain associated with manual handling of machinery, a software to easily integrate artificial intelligence into any IoT device and a fully automated mine with robotics, IoT and IA. Likewise, the solution developed by GFT that measures the driver behaviour to update insurance policies was the best 
        
          testbed
        
         of this fifth edition that will be held until tomorrow at the Gran Via venue of Fira de Barcelona.
      
As the best solution for the industry, the French firm Eiffage has been awarded, in association with Bioservo Technologies, which has developed “Iron Hand”, a bionic glove that combines robotics and IoT to facilitate the activities of the worker, reduce the physical stresses associated with manual handling of machinery and prevent muscle or joint pain. The degree of muscle reduction or strengthening varies from 25% to 86% depending on the job and the frequency of the manipulation operations.
The award for the most innovative technology went to “NanoEdge AI”, created by the French companies Cartesiam.ai and éolane. It is a software that allows any IoT developer to easily and instantly integrate automatic learning functions into their solution without having any knowledge of artificial intelligence.
In the category of best solution for business transformation, the award went to “Intelligent Mine”, a complex project developed by Zyfra for SUEK, Russia’s leading coal and energy producer, which turns mining into a highly efficient, safe and automated activity thanks to robotics, IA and IoT technologies. The proposed solution incorporates autonomous heavy trucks, a mining infrastructure with automatic gates, traffic lights and data transmission system, control centre with remote operator workplaces and FMS server for robots to manage and optimise the work.
The IoT Solutions Awards also presented an award to the best of the 10 testbeds exhibited this year at IoT Solutions World Congress. For the jury, the award-winning solution was presented by the German multinational GFT. This is a demo on how the Data Streaming architecture in the cloud allows to analyse driving habits in real time in order to customise car insurance. This connected car application is an example of how greater customer knowledge can transform business models.
The finalists in this edition of the IoT Awards were Vodafone with their work for Mencap; nanolöck for Thales, Fraunhofer; itc IoT-Seebot for Municipalitat de RioTercero; Zyfra for Godrej & Boyce, and Tata Consultancy Services.
The IoT Solutions Awards ceremony took place at the Gran Via exhibition venue in an event that brought together the main business and technological representatives of the Internet of industrial things in the international sphere. This year’s edition was sponsored by IoTopia, Global Platform.
Barcelona, 30th October 2019
