
# The Best Graphics Card Under $250: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1660 vs. AMD Radeon RX 590

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erik Kain**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2019/11/03/the-best-graphics-card-under-250-nvidia-geforce-gtx-1660-vs-amd-radeon-rx-590/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with
        
        
          
             Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
If you’re on a budget, the good news is that there are a ton of PC gaming components that are very powerful and fast at the lower end of the price scale. While it’s easy to spend hundreds (or even thousands) on GPUs, CPUs and RAM, budget-minded gamers can cobble together a gaming rig for a fraction of the price.
Take, for instance, the graphics card market. At the high end of the scale, you can easily drop more than $1,000 for a fancy Nvidia GeForce RTX 2080 Ti. Or you can spend $700 or more on an AMD Radeon VII or Nvidia GeForce RTX 2080 Super.
But there are much less expensive graphics cards out there. I’ll take a look at two of the top contenders in the upper end of this market. Yes, you can find graphics cards for less than a $100, but these are going to struggle with modern games, even at 1080p.
On Team Green, we have the Nvidia GeForce GTX 1660. On Team Red, we have the AMD Radeon RX 590. These are comparably priced cards with similar specs. Here’s how they compare:
As you can see, the specs here are fairly comparable. Probably the biggest difference between the two is power consumption, with the RX 590 drawing a great deal more power than the GTX 1660.
But a performance gap does exist. Across multiple benchmarks at various PC-hardware sites, the GeForce GTX 1660 consistently outperforms the Radeon RX 590. At 1080p, this can be anywhere from just 3 or 4 frames-per-second, to as much as 10 to 15 frames-per-second. Things are a wash at 4K, but neither of these cards will perform well at that resolution to begin with, barely making it out of the 20-30 fps realm on most games (except for legacy titles).
Overall, the GeForce GTX 1660 outperforms the Radeon RX 590 across the board, with only a few exceptions. Meanwhile, the two cards curently retail at very similar price points, with the Radeon RX 590 falling significantly in price in recent months.
Right now, you can purchase this EVGA GeForce GTX 1660 on Amazon for $230 and the Sapphire Radeon RX 590 for $203. This gives the RX 590 a slight price edge over the GTX 1660, though less than $30 should probably not make much of a difference. The frame-rate advantage may not be much, but the GTX 1660 draws less power, which will save you money in the long haul.
As of this writing, however, the RX 590 comes with a free game, as well, and it’s a good one: Devil May Cry 5, one of my favorites of 2019, and just a brilliant action game all around. If you don’t already own it, that makes the RX 590 an even better purchase. That game still runs $59.99 on Steam, but you can find it for closer to $30 elsewhere. Still, that’s $30 off the price of the card, bringing the gap between the two to closer to $60 and making the RX 590 a great deal more attractive in the process.
For my money, I'd go with the GeForce GTX 1660—but I already own Devil May Cry 5, so I may be biased. Either way you go, both cards will run most everything you throw at them at 1080p at over 60 frames-per-second. They’ll even handle some 1440p gaming well. Just don’t count on either for 4K. For 4K gaming you’ll need much beefier GPUs.
