
# 'Let's burn stuff': Q&A panellists debate violence and shattering the status quo

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:26:16+00:00**

Author: **Luke Henriques-Gomes**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2019/nov/05/lets-burn-stuff-qa-panellists-debate-violence-and-shattering-the-status-quo)


        Special episode coinciding with Broadside feminist ideas festival ponders killing rapists and ‘positive masculinity’
      
When Q&A came to an end on Monday night, one thing was clear: this was no ordinary episode.
In a special to coincide with the feminist ideas festival Broadside, the panel considered questions and topics such as whether violence was a warranted and preferred method of effecting change, whether the police should be abolished, and what “positive masculinity” could look like.
At times Monday night’s show went to places Q&A rarely goes. “We are trying to keep the language under control,” the host, Fran Kelly, said at one point. “If you’re offended by the profanity, maybe leave now.”
That freewheeling approach culminated in the Egyptian-American journalist Mona Eltahawy offering as her best feminist advice: “Be more bisexual. Be less cisgendered in the way you move through the world. Fuck it all up and be free.”
The decision to book Elthawy had already been seized upon by the rightwing Spectator magazine to attack the ABC for “justifying violence”. Monday night’s episode is likely to spark a wider debate about that question in some media.
Earlier, when Eltahawy wondered how many rapists should be killed until men stopped raping women, Kelly replied: “Them’s fighting words.”
“Spectator Australia is saying Mona is promoting violence,” Kelly said. “That’s what you’re doing?”
“I’m saying that violence has been owned by the state,” Eltahawy said. “That violence has been given by the state to its police, that violence has been allowed to continue unchecked mostly by men, especially privileged men. Exactly how long do I have to wait to be safe?”
