
# Adorable moment great-gran meets penguins at care home after making wish to meet one during lifetime

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:05:05+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/adorable-moment-great-gran-meets-17196614)

These adorable pictures show three PENGUINS being paraded around a care home - after a 99-year-old resident made a wish to "meet one" in her lifetime.
Great-gran Joyce Gardner couldn't believe her eyes when the little two-foot-tall birds waddled in three months after she made the unusual request.
Heartwarming images show the inquisitive animals, which were famously in an episode of The Crown, shuffling around as excitable OAPs watch on in amazement.
The cheerful little birds, which hail from Chile but live at a British zoo, have incredibly sociable natures, meaning they can be picked up and petted by humans.
The visit was organised by the care homeowner, Elizabeth Stephens, who spent weeks working out how she could possibly get penguins inside her home.
Eventually, she got in touch with officials at Heythrop Zoological Gardens, Oxon, which has 20 Humboldt penguins that often work on camera or at live events.
On Tuesday (29/10) three of the pint-sized animals called Pringle, Groot and Charlie, travelled to the care home in Lincoln with two experienced handlers.
Elizabeth said: "I'm always looking for something different to entertain the residents so when Joyce requested to meet a penguin I thought it was a great idea.
"I'm so glad we were able to get it organised because everyone had an absolutely wonderful time, including the penguins.
"They're such incredible and inquisitive little animals so they interacted amazingly with the residents, who couldn't believe their eyes."
Speaking after the visit, Joyce said: "I've always loved animals, especially penguins. To meet one in real life was one of the best experiences I've ever had."
Elizabeth said carers at Bernadette House ask new residents to make a wish when they first move into the house to see if it can be granted.
"Some people ask for a certain type of cake or a specific film to watch but Joyce asked to meet a penguin, which was a first for us," Elizabeth said.
"I did some research to see if it was possible and eventually managed to make it happen."
The care home owner added that the penguins were "incredibly friendly" and "very happy" to be surrounded by so many happy faces.
"They were clearly very used to being around people because their behaviour was wonderful," she said.
"I'm not sure who enjoyed the day more, the residents or the penguins."
 
Research shows contact and companionship with animals can reduce the stress hormone cortisol and provide an overall boost to well-being.
The unorthodox form of therapy is said to help with a range of issues including anxiety, autism, poor behaviour, low self-confidence, stress and trauma.
In recent months Elizabeth has arranged for llamas, dogs and even chicks to visit her home.
"Elderly people and particularly those with dementia seem to have a really special and unique connection to animals," she said.
"I think it's because they are very non-threatening and calming."
The Humbolts that visited last week have been dubbed 'showbiz penguins' because they're often used on camera or at live events.
 
Their most famous screen appearance was in a 2017 episode of Netflix series The Crown when they're pictured being fed by Matt Smith playing Prince Phillip.
The three which visited Bernadette House were Pringle, a six-year-old male, Charlie, a 12-year-old male, and Grotto, a seven-month-old female.
