
# Apple Releases iOS and iPadOS 13.2.2 With Fix for Background Refresh Bug

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:05:01+00:00**

Author: **Juli Clover**

Original: [MacRumors](https://www.macrumors.com/2019/11/07/apple-releases-ios-13-2-2/)

Apple today released iOS and iPadOS 13.2.2, updates to the iOS 13.2 software that was released on October 28. The iOS and ‌‌iPadOS‌‌ 13.2.2 updates are available on all eligible devices over-the-air in the Settings app. To access the updates, go to Settings > General > Software Update.
iOS and ‌iPadOS‌ 13.2.2 are minor updates focusing on performance improvements and bug fixes for issues that were not able to be addressed in iOS 13.2 rather than major outward facing changes. According to Apple's release notes, the update fixes an issue that could cause apps running in the background to unexpectedly quit, which led to background apps refreshing more often than normal. These frequent app refreshes of Safari, YouTube, and other media apps, led to multiple user complaints. Apple has addressed this problem in the iOS 13.3 beta too. The update also resolves an issue where the iPhone could lose cellular service after a call, and it fixes a bug that caused cellular data to be temporarily unavailable. Apple's full release notes for the update are below:
The release notes for the ‌iPadOS‌ 13.2.2 update are the same, with the exception of the fix for cellular issues.
Apple has also seeded the first beta of an upcoming iOS 13.3 update that brings Communication Limits in Screen Time, and a toggle for turning off Animoji and Memoji stickers on the emoji keyboard.
