
# Save Big Bucks On This Wonderful HP 2-In-1 Chromebook

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:54:41+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/save-big-bucks-on-this-wonderful-hp-2-in-1-chromebook.html)

Most Chromebooks are pretty nice these days, and this HP Chromebook in particular is a wonderful option, and it's on sale right now.
The sale price is not the only to love about this HP Chromebook though. One of its defining features is that it's actually a 2-in-1 device. Because of this feature, you can use it like a laptop.
You can also use it like a tablet if you want because it also has a touch screen. Versatility is the name of the game here and is something that makes it that much more functional.
Advertisement
As for the size of the display, this is a 14-inch laptop. So it's not too big nor is it too compact either. It's a tad smaller than a 15-inch laptop, so it should be fairly easy to fit into most bags. This in addition to its lightweight build make it extremely portable.
As Chromebook specs go, the hardware here sits kind of towards the top. It has 8GB of RAM which is really plenty for a Chromebook, and it has 64GB of internal storage for all of your files. It also supports expandable storage if you need it.
It's using an 8th-gen Intel Core i3 processor so the CPU isn't too out of date. Meaning, performance will be pretty good for whatever you need. If you're a gamer, you'll even be able to use it for playing games on Stadia once the service launches.
Advertisement
At a sale price of $349, this HP Chromebook that's also a tablet is a steal. Especially when you consider its normal price of $599, so you're saving $250. Worth mentioning is that the laptops has a 360-degree design. So you can flip the screen all the way around so it sits flat. You can also prop it up in the tent mode like it has a kickstand, which is perfect for viewing or playing games.

        HP 2-In-1 14-Inch Chromebook - Best Buy - $349
      
