
# Middle-aged people are the new swing voters

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:00:37+00:00**

Author: **Torsten Bell**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/01/middle-aged-swing-voters-age-class-political)


        Increasingly, age has taken the place that class once occupied as an indicator of political allegiance
      
An election is coming. You may have noticed. The early phase of any campaign is the contest about what the election will actually be about – where the battle lines will lie. If you’re gunning for the Conservatives or Liberal Democrats you probably want it to be all about Brexit; if you’re backing Labour, probably anything but. Either way, we know with certainty that underlying the tactical battles of this election will be a crucial issue: age.
In the same way that class dominated many elections of the 20th century, age has increasingly come to dominate in the 21st. A voter’s age wasn’t a decisive factor in which party they opted for in the 1970s, but it has become increasingly important as a predictor in recent decades. In 2017, a 30-year-old was twice as likely to back Labour as a 70-year-old. The latter, in turn, was more than twice as likely to vote Conservative. Come polling day, our age will do a lot of work in explaining who we vote for.
It is a much bigger deal than this week’s overdone row about whether the 12 December election risks students – who disproportionately vote for Labour or the Lib Dems – heading for the hills as term ends rather than doing their democratic duty. In truth, it won’t make much difference given that Christmas doesn’t come quite that early to most universities.
While politicians often focus on students, it’s wrong to confuse the youth vote with the student vote. Just one in five 21- to 24-year-olds are students, and among 25- to 29-year-olds, just one in 20. Among the youngest voters, Labour’s support is near identical between students and non-students. It’s only the Lib Dems who do distinctly better among students, compared with non-students. The Conservatives, conversely, fare badly among students – recent figures indicate that support has slipped to 11%.
Meanwhile, our perception of what a “younger voter” actually is probably needs readjusting – in 2017, the tipping-point age at which you become more likely to vote Conservative than Labour was 47.
Understanding the nature of the age divide in voting helps parties to clarify their priorities. There’s a reason the Conservatives prioritise pensioner benefits while cutting them for young low- and middle-income families. And for Labour, the 3 million parents bringing up children in the private rented sector – living with the worry that they could be asked to move out at a few months’ notice – are a big priority and outnumber the 2.3 million students.
Age divisions are not just superseding class in terms of their electoral significance; they are taking on more of a class feel to them by way of economic divisions. Today’s thirtysomethings, for example, are living with the biggest continuing hit to their wages from the financial crisis, in part because of the sheer bad luck of when they entered the labour market.
This isn’t just about demography though. Geography is crucial too. Individual places – which are what matters in a constituency-based, first-past-the-post system – have very different age profiles, and are ageing very differently as the country as a whole gets older. Across the UK, more than 60 local authority areas have a higher average age than Japan, the country with the highest average age overall – 46 – in the world. In contrast, other parts of Britain are demographically closer to young Latin America, with 23 local authority areas having a younger average age than Chile. The average Oxford resident is, at 29, barely half the age of someone in North Norfolk, the oldest place in Britain with an average age of 54.
More importantly, Britain is growing apart as it ages. Rural areas such as Maldon, Eden and Richmondshire have aged twice as fast as the rest of the UK since 2001, while at the other extreme some cities have actually managed to get younger in the last two decades. Nottingham has lost three years, while all of Newcastle, Coventry and Bristol are defying the ageing process.
Older areas are ageing quickly because there aren’t a lot of babies being born in places without many women of childbearing age, while younger places are seeing migration from within the country and from abroad holding down their average ages. And yes, universities are bringing in students to keep many cities younger.
Combine this demographic divergence with the growing role of age in determining which party we vote for and you begin to see the shifting electoral battlegrounds over which the election will be fought. Old and young seats are becoming the new safe seats for the Conservatives and Labour respectively, just as old and young voters are becoming their core supporters. The middle aged, not the middle class, are the new swing voters. So, age is going to be central to this election – and many more to come. That’s what really matters, not whether a few universities happen to have wrapped term up before polling day.
• Torsten Bell is director of the Resolution Foundation
