
# Comedy legend Lenny Henry is coming to Plymouth this weekend

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:22:27+00:00**

Author: **Talia Heggs**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/comedy-legend-lenny-henry-coming-3512823)

Legendary comedian Sir Lenny Henry is currently embarking on a huge UK Tour which is set to dazzle the Plymouth Pavilions stage this Sunday.
Following the publication of his memoir ‘Who Am I, Again?’ in October, the critically acclaimed comedian is travelling the length of the country with a live show recalling a jam packed session of life stories, kicking off in Birmingham Hippodrome, and an appearance in Plymouth this weekend.
The acclaimed writer, radio DJ, TV presenter and co-founder of Comic Relief in his show ‘An Evening with Lenny Henry- Who Am I, Again?’ tells the extraordinary story of his early years and sudden rise to fame.
Born soon after his Jamaican parents had arrived in the Midlands, Lenny was raised as one of seven siblings in a boisterous, hilarious, complicated working household, and sent out into the world with a natural ability to make people laugh.
He recollects growing up in the Black Country, puberty, school, friendship, family secrets and unabashed racism. At school, his comedic flare undoubtedly helped to subdue the daily racist bullying.
Lenny proceeds to regale the audience with memories of his stellar career, bursting into the public consciousness in 1975 as the splendidly gifted 16-year-old winner of the TV talent show, New Faces, followed by his enormous successes on such TV shows as Tiswas, Three of a Kind and The Lenny Henry Show. He fondly reminisces about live performance over the years, as well as his favourite comedic double act.
"What Morecambe and Wise did in front of a live audience was very different to what they did on telly. Their TV show was brilliant, but Eric was probably 20 times funnier on stage than he was on telly," he said.
"I worked with him in Bournemouth in 1979, and it was one of the most extraordinary live experiences I have ever had. It was so funny and loose.”
"I try to get to the same space when I perform live, create real sense that this is unmediated and unmitigated. I attempt to communicate to the audience that we’re gonna have a great time for the next 90 minutes, and then we're all off home! HOORAY!".
In the second half "An Evening with Lenny Henry - Who Am I, Again" Lenny will be interviewed by friend, broadcaster and author Jon Canter, offering further insights into his life and career.
Riotous, warm-hearted and revealing, and told with Lenny’s trademark energy — expect recipes, comic strips, and tips for aspiring comedians — Who Am I, Again? is the heartbreakingly honest and inspirational coming-of-age story of a man who holds a very special place in British hearts.
An Evening With Lenny Henry UK tour comes to Plymouth Pavilions on Sunday, November 10.
