
# Nirdesh Baisoya emulates Anil Kumble’s feat in U-16 match

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:06:29+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/nirdesh-baisoya-emulates-anil-kumbles-feat-in-u-16-match?utm_medium=rss)


        Meghalayan off-spinner Nirdesh Baisoya has emulated Anil Kumble’s feat by taking all 10 wickets in the first innings of a match against Nagaland on Wednesday in the U-16 Vijay Merchant Trophy. Playing as a guest player for Meghalaya, Baisoya returned with figures of 10 for 51 in 21 overs.
      
It has been 20 years since Kumble stunned the world to become only the 2nd bowler in history after England’s Jim Laker to take 10 wickets in an innings in an international Test match. Then, he led India to a famous 212-run win in the 2nd Test against Pakistan at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, while today, young Baisoya sent Nagaland packing for just 113 on day one.
“It’s yet to sink in. I was not born when Anil Kumble picked up 10 wickets, but I heard a lot about it. I always wanted to do something like that, never thought it would happen so early in my life. I just spoke to my parents and they became emotional as well,” Baisoya told IANS.
“I had picked six wickets by the first session. That is when I started to believe that I can go for all 10. My teammates backed me a lot. There was turn on the pitch since morning and the overhead conditions also helped,” he said.
In what is his second season in the U-16 Vijay Merchant Trophy, the 15-year-old already has 27 wickets in his bag from four matches — last time, he had picked up 33 wickets from six.
“It was a dream come true for me and I never expected this. I have to keep working hard as I have a long way to go. “I want to make my family, sisters, brothers and parents proud,” Baisoya added.
