
# Rangers and Celtic fans certain convincing Betfred Cup Final win is coming their team’s way - Hotline

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:04:14+00:00**

Author: **Sports Hotline, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sports-hotline/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-celtic-fans-certain-convincing-20803444)

Rangers booked a Betfred Cup Final spot against Celtic by brushing aside Hearts just as the Hoops did to Hibs a day earlier.
That showpiece isn't until next month but already the mind games are being played by both sets of the Old Firm who were salivating over their team's performance.
Robert Muldoon, Glasgow, said: "If there was any doubt over Rangers being the real deal then it was banished once and for all at Hampden. We wiped the floor with Hearts and the only surprise was it was only by three goals.
"We were dominant from start to finish and now I  can't wait to lift the first trophy of the season."
Ian Paterson, Motherwell, said: "Both of the Old Firm are now so far ahead of the rest that it was a weekend precession over the Edinburgh clubs to reach the Betfred Cup Final.
"It was all too easy but Rangers were excellent and Steven Gerrard now has a side we can trust which has quality all over the park. Bring it on Celtic."
Walter Gallagher, Troon, said: "Rangers were excellent against Hearts and can now look forward to a final which should hold no fears. I believe we have better players than Celtic and confidence is flowing through the side.
"We are ready to challenge on all fronts this season."
 
Alan Carruthers, Springburn, said: "A special mention to James Tavernier for his superb performance against Hearts.
"He's been getting stick over the last two months but I hope those critics watched him setting up the first two goals at Hampden.
"Hopefully he'll now get back to his best in time to lift the League Cup against Celtic next month."
Craig Hughes, Glasgow, said: "Celtic were immense against Hibs, they are playing with an attacking style which the support have been crying out for. We will have no problems putting a few past Rangers to lift the League Cup on our way to another Treble."
Adam Ryan, Croy, said: "Poor Hotline regular Alfie Mullin, every day another comment by him which merely serves to highlight his pain at Celtic winning all the trophies. The guy's at his wits' end and maybe we should get him some shifts polishing all the silverware in Paradise."
Mark Mcvie, Edinburgh, said: "If Neil Lennon thinks Craig Levein's been harshly treated he should try racking up a similar record and see how the supporters feel. One defeat for his lot and they are spitting the dummy out, the truth is that Hearts have been horrendous."
John Allardyce, Edinburgh, said: “Lennon’s a joke of a manager. He took Hibs backwards and was handed an already winning team at Celtic which was built by Brendan Rodgers.  If he was put in charge at Kilmarnock or St Johnstone he would be a flop.
Jim McBeth, Drumchapel, said: "Rangers have paid £3.6m on solicitors fees in the last financial year but will chairman Dave King and his board ever learn that their solicitors are not capable of beating Mike Ashley’s team. They are throwing money into an abyss.
"Rangers have to fight fire with fire by employing a top solicitors firm from London who can take on Ashley and save millions."
John Scott, Grassmoor, said: "The buck stops with Heckingbottom and he needs to go now. If Florian Kamberi wants to join him then fair enough. A record of 18 league goals in 53 games is nowhere near a £2m price tag.
"People outside Easter Road might just start understanding what the older fans have gone through and the sheer frustration and anger being generated towards our board of procrastinating directors.
"A board that has no respect for the restrictions and lack of finances which held back the ambitions of previous incumbents"
And finally.
Wullie Graham, Bristol, said: "After Owen Farrell's sarcastic smirk at the Haka last week it was great to watch the arrogant smug English get well and truly thrashed by South Africa. 
"All week they were telling us not if but when England  win the World Cup. Complacency and arrogance got them what they deserved."
