
# Odd-Even Begins In Delhi: Vehicle Numbers Ending With Even Digit Allowed On Roads Today

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:28:24+00:00**

Author: **Newsroom**

Original: [HUFFPOST](https://www.huffingtonpost.in/entry/odd-even-rules-in-delhi-health-advisory_in_5dbf893ee4b03d0aacfbca43)

The odd-even scheme in the backdrop of the severe air pollution in the national capital will kick in from 8 am on Monday (November 4), with only even-numbered non-transport vehicles allowed on Delhi roads on the first day of the exercise.
Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to people on Sunday to follow the rule for the sake of their children and the city. He has also asked the government machinery to ensure that no person faces inconvenience due to the restrictions.
Under the scheme, which will be implemented from 8 am to 8 pm till November 15, non-transport four-wheeled vehicles with registration numbers ending with an odd digit (1, 3, 5, 7, 9) will not be allowed on the roads on November 4, 6, 8, 12 and 14.
Similarly, vehicles with registration numbers ending with an even digit (0, 2, 4, 6, 8) will not be allowed on the roads on November 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15.
Cab aggregators Ola and Uber have said they will not apply surge pricing during the odd-even scheme. The government has also taken steps to prevent overcharging by autorickshaws.
Hundreds of teams of Delhi Traffic Police and the transport and revenue departments have been deployed for a strict implementation of the odd-even scheme. Around 400 traffic inspectors and assistant traffic inspectors (ATIs) of the DTC and the transport department will be deployed in two shifts during the drive.
The ATIs and revenue department officials will issue challans to the violators as well as ensure a proper enforcement of the scheme at 200 locations identified by the transport department, according to a government official.
Delhi Traffic Police has deployed 200 teams to ensure proper implementation of the scheme and around 5,000 civil defence volunteers have been trained for deployment across the city to create awareness about it.
Violators will be fined Rs 4,000. Head constables and officers of higher ranks in the traffic police, sub-divisional magistrates, tehsildars, ATIs and high-ranked officials of the DTC have been authorised to issue challans to the violators.
The enforcement teams of the traffic police and other departments have been issued challan books, receipt books and guidelines, to be used during the 12-day exercise.
In view of the odd-even scheme, the Delhi government has adopted staggered timings for the offices of its departments. While the offices of certain departments will open at 9.30 am, those of certain others will open at 10.30 am.
The scheme will also test the resilience of the city’s public transport system.
The Delhi government’s plan to hire 2,000 private buses has resulted in partial success as only over 800 buses were registered till Sunday evening. The number was likely to cross 1,000 by the night, a transport department official said.
Delhi Metro will operate 61 additional trips during the 11 days when the odd-even scheme will be in force. However, a major burden will be borne by over 5,600 Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses.
The Delhi government issued a health advisory on Sunday in view of the severe air pollution and asked people to avoid outdoor activities as much as possible, especially during the morning and late evening hours.
In a statement, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the air pollution had reached the severe level and asked people to follow the dos and don’ts as mentioned in the advisory.
The advisory said the air pollution might cause respiratory problems in healthy people on a prolonged exposure and pronounced respiratory or other serious illnesses for the vulnerable population even on a short exposure.
“The general public is, therefore, advised to avoid outdoor physical activities, especially during morning and late evening hours,” it stated.
The vulnerable population was advised to strictly avoid outdoor activities, remain indoors and keep activity levels low.
The vulnerable population comprises elderly people, children aged below five years, pregnant women and those with a poor nutritional status.
Traffic police personnel, rickshaw-pullers and roadside vendors were advised to take extra precautions.
The dos and don’ts asked people to remain indoors and reschedule their outdoor activities, consult doctors in case of breathlessness, giddiness, cough, chest discomfort or pain and irritation in the eyes.
Using N95 masks, avoiding heavy traffic and polluted areas, keeping doors and windows closed in the morning and late evening were also advised by the government.
It also asked people to use public transport, avoid driving two-wheelers and other vehicles, and stop smoking. 

        (All inputs from PTI)
      
