
# Jellicent Has Killed Thousands Of Sailors

Published at: **2019-11-03T02:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Zack Zwiezen**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/jellicent-has-killed-thousands-of-sailors/)

Every Pokémon is interesting and worth talking about. I don’t play a ton of Pokémon, but I do enjoy the universe and I love learning more about the creatures in it. So, Here’s Another Pokémon! It’s Jellicent!
Type: Water/Ghost
Average Height: 7' 03"
Average Weight: 297.6 lbs.
First Added In Generation V
The Bermuda Triangle is one of those creepy and mysterious things that I’ve always enjoyed reading about. Sure, the most likely answer is that it’s just a popular spot in the ocean for travelling ships and planes and that means more chances for accidents to happen. It’s probably not aliens or demons. But in the Pokémon universe, there is a much more disturbing explanation for missing ships in the ocean: Jellicent. This Pokémon is a large ghost type jellyfish creature that drags ships to the bottom of the sea, killing all the crew aboard.
Jellicent doesn’t look too dangerous. In fact, they look like a rather funny and colourful character. Someone who might be the star of some animated show on a streaming service you’ve never heard of. But don’t let these cute looks fool you. According to multiple Pokédex entries listed on Bulbapedia, Jellicent is responsible for murdering a lot of people. It does all this murdering by attacking ships that enter its waters and dragging these ships down to the bottom of the ocean. It also sucks life energy out of people.
It’s not just big boats that are afraid of Jellicent, lonely fishermen are worried about this damn ghost jellyfish. According to Pokédex entries, Jellicent has been known to grab fishermen and drag them to the bottom of the sea, killing them in the process.
This, combined with the whole sucking life energy thing, makes it hard to argue Jellicent isn’t hunting people. Sure, if Jellicent was just grabbing ships and dragging them to the bottom of the ocean, you could argue it is simply protecting its territory and isn’t trying to kill anyone. Like when Great White Sharks attack surfers thinking they are seals or snakes bite people who stick their hands in their holes. But Jellicent is doing more than just grabbing a ship. It is actively attacking and possibly killing people. One Pokédex entry even mentions Jellicents wait near yachts and fancy boats, looking for prey. That’s messed up, Jellicent.
Awww...aren’t they cute? NO! This is Jellicent propaganda created to distract you from the truth! These aren’t cute and elegant creatures, they are murderers.
Best Comment From Last Week
I assume someone with more Pokémon knowledge can elaborate on this topic, but Pokémon as weapons sounds like something that must have happened. Imagine a few armoured Charizards storming a castle or an Onyx being used during a riot.
