
# ‘Jesus Is King’ Explained: A Guide To The Story And Themes Of Kanye West’s 2019 Album

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Lambert**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chrislambert/2019/10/31/jesus-is-king-explained-a-guide-to-the-story-and-themes-of-kanye-wests-2019-album/)

With the release of Jesus Is King, Kanye West has added another concept album to his discography. This article will overview the concept, major themes, and more. Summary
Jesus Is King relies on a 5-1-5 structure, with the middle song, “Everything We Need,” serving as a pivot point. In the front half, Kanye wants to live a life in service of Christ but his efforts are still complicated by ego and fear. Those hurdles vanish after the epiphany that is “Everything We Need.” With his path clarified, the back half of Jesus Is King sees West praise, repent, and serve.

        Some context
      
Throughout his discography, Kanye has almost always utilized linear development. Meaning that each successive track on an album carries with it the context and consequences of the previous tracks. This is less meaningful on purely conceptual albums like Late Registration and 808s & Heartbreak, but critical in appreciating the full artistry of his narrative albums: The College Dropout, Graduation, My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, Yeezus, The Life of Pablo, ye, and Jesus Is King.
If you’ve ever read a book or watched a movie, then you’ll recognize linear development. It’s a fancy way of saying “there’s continuity.”
For example, The College Dropout has three acts.
In Act 1, Kanye is in Chicago, struggling to get by like everyone else, commenting on what he sees around him. The act ends with him meeting Jay-Z and having the chance to make it in the music industry.
Act 2 begins with “Get ‘Em High” and chronicles the character in the throes of making commercial music for mass consumption. It culminates with “Breathe In, Breathe Out,” a superficial, dumbed-down callback to the thoughtful and impressive 1998 track “Respiration” by Talib Kweli and Mos Def.
Act 3 sees Kanye reject making the kind of music everyone else in the industry does. Instead, he’s infused with the spirit of being a “dropout.” So inspired, he regains the depth and personality from Act 1, delivering “Two Words,” “Through the Wire,” and “Family Business.” That spirit culminates in “Last Call,” a celebration of Kanye achieving the impossible: going from a random kid in Chicago to one of the biggest names in hip hop.

        Jesus Is King, track by track:
      

        Every Hour
      
“Every Hour” is a broader conceptual introduction that acts as a sort of prophecy. Sung by the Sunday Service choir, the track instructs that one needs to “Sing ‘til the power of the Lord comes down.” The implication here is that the power of the Lord is not fully present in the life of the character. It must be summoned through this specific action: “Sing every hour/Every minute/Every second/Sing each and every millisecond.”
In narrative, it’s typical for the character to start in a place of need. The story derives from how the character fulfills that need.

        Selah
      
In scripture, “selah” is a word found in the Psalms. There’s no precise definition for the word. Given the musicality of the Psalms, “selah” has gained popularity as a note to pause, to reflect, to have a moment of silence.
While “Every Hour” introduced the need of the story, “Selah,” through Kanye’s two verses, introduces the character. A man who is clearly religious but still aggressive and self-serving. He defends screaming at his chauffeur. He is concerned with his own freedom. He acknowledges friends have betrayed him, that he even stabbed himself in the back. He’s upset that those in power have been greedy and says: We need ours by this evening/No white flag or treaty. He views himself as part of the army of God.
Summed up, “Selah” is Kanye reflecting on the state of the world and his place in it. He views himself as a soldier in God’s army and is ready to fight. Usually, in art, there’s a polarized relationship between violence and art. That violence is a byproduct of the physical, and art is the result of the spiritual. The more violent you are, the less spiritual. The more spiritual, the less violent. So if the goal is to reach a place where you sing until the power of the Lord comes down, the forcefulness of “Selah” feels counter-productive. Which makes it a perfect place to begin the character journey.

        Follow God
      
“Follow God” gives a more specific profile on Kanye’s behavior. He’s “stretching” his hands to God, but he lacks peace. He’s looking at Instagram, he’s screaming at his dad, screaming “at the referee” (the referee could be viewed as a metaphor for those who enforce the rules of society). One of the final lines of the lone verse is important. Kanye admits he is wrestling with God. Because of that, he describes his life as being lifelike. Meaning it feels false rather than real. There’s something missing.

        Closed on Sunday
      
One of the popular criticisms of Jesus Is King comes from “Closed on Sundays.” It’s the refrain: Closed on Sunday, you’re my Chick-fil-A/You’re my number one, with the lemonade. It’s become the go-to example for those accusing Jesus Is King of having lackluster lyrics.
But keeping in mind that this front half of the album is Kanye presenting himself as not properly practicing Christianity, the Chick-fil-A line reads purposefully silly. It’s similar to, on College Dropout, the absurdity of “New Workout Plan,” “Slow Jamz,” and “Breathe In, Breathe Out.” Those three tracks demonstrate a heightened desperation to make a hit pop song. They’re over the top as a meaningful contrast to thoughtfulness and poetry of Dropout’s first act.
The rest of “Closed on Sunday” finds Kanye concerned with his family and the temptations of society. How vipers and social media could draw West’s kids away from Jesus. Despite West’s declaration of I bow down to the King upon the throne/My life is His, I’m no longer my own, he’s still defensive and fearful of others. He’s drawing lines in the sand. Threatening people to “try me.” He goes so far as to describe his faith as a weapon.

        On God
      
“On God” begins with positives. Kanye mentions loving thy neighbor and God’s light shining brightest in the dark. He shouts out black people in prison, telling them You can still be anything you wanna be. But the verse eventually shifts to Kanye speaking about Kanye. His riches and his greatness.
It descends to the point where he complains about paying taxes and defending the high price point of Yeezy shoes. No, he says, I cannot let me family starve. As if, because of the IRS, his family would starve if he sold Yeezys for less than $200. There’s a desperation here that doesn’t necessarily ring appropriate for a man of faith, right? Especially a man of faith who had earlier critiqued the greed of those in power.
Surprise, surprise when the very next song is called “Everything We Need.”

        Everything We Need
      
There are a two key lines. The biggest is Kanye saying Switch your, switch your attitude/Go ‘head, level up yourself/This that different latitude. Clearly, there’s a shift in demeanor, in perspective. Furthering this notion is the chorus, sung by Ty Dolla $ign: We began after the storm inside. The idea of the “storm inside” is representative of internal conflict. Being in the past tense, we know this conflict has been resolved. Which is why West mentions the switched attitude.
From “Selah” through “On God,” West detailed the storm inside. His warring mix of faith and aggression. But faith wins out. God wins out. After Kanye worried about the IRS and his family starving, he’s reminded that We have everything we need. The Lord will provide.

        Water
      
Water is commonly symbolic of rebirth and cleansing. That’s why it’s the key component to a Baptism, a Christian ceremony that demonstrates someone’s covenant with the Church. It makes sense that following West’s new attitude that we’d have a song that invokes the Baptism, as he’s purifying himself from the negative energies that had complicated his Christianity.
While Ant Clemons sings about being cleaned and being pure and getting through whatever storms occur, Kanye prays to Jesus. Kanye asks Jesus to heal the bruises, help, heal, forgive, reveal, give us strength, make us well, help us live, give us wealth. He reaffirms that Jesus is our safe, our rock.
This is a marked difference from the soldier mindset of “Selah,” the defensiveness of “Closed on Sundays,” and the materialism that dominated “On God.”

        God Is
      
Another stark difference from the earlier tracks. Previously, the praising of God intermingled with Kanye’s own desires and successes. Instead of being in service to God, God was, essentially, in service to Kanye. But with the change that has occurred, that dynamic has flipped. “God Is” is total adulation. A far more traditional gospel approach than the tracks prior to “Everything We Need.” Where before West saw conflict, the battle has ended. Jesus, Kanye declares, won the fight.

        Hands On
      
Mark 16:18 in the Bible states: “They will pick up snakes with their hands, and if they drink any deadly poison, it will not harm them; they will lay their hands on the sick, and they will be made well.”
The idea of “laying hands on” has been associated, then, with praying for the sick. Whether it’s someone physically, mentally, or spiritually ill.
West details his breaking up with “the devil,” a euphemism for the giving up of his old, sinful ways. How in the wake of his Christian rebirth, it’s Christians who have judged him the most harshly. “Hands On” is at once a rebuke and a request. If Christians are supposed to lay their hands on the sick, then why have they been so harsh towards Kanye? But he acknowledges his own flaws, having worked for the Devil as long as he had: I deserve all the criticism you got. Even so, he wants forgiveness, he wants redemption. Which is why he asks: somebody pray for me...Don’t throw me up, lay your hands on me/Please, pray for me.
It’s a beautiful moment where instead of trying to battle everyone as he had early on, he nows seeks not only atonement but community. The soldier who was ready to walk alone has realized the fruitlessness of the one man army. The gospel isn’t a shield to stagnate behind. It isn’t a sword to cut down foes. Its power is far greater.

        Use This Gospel
      
“Use This Gospel” has a feature verse from Pusha T and another from No Malice. The two artists used to be known as Clipse. They worked together from 1992 until 2010, when they had a soft breakup. It was later confirmed official in 2014. It went so far as No Malice stating there would never be another Clipse album.
For almost a decade, the duo hadn’t performed together. But through the gospel, here they are. Putting aside years of differences to praise God.
Pusha’s verse concludes with the admission that he is as crooked as Vegas. It’s a negative characterization. One that’s commented on by No Malice. A lot of damaged souls...Just hold on to your brother when his faith lost. So you have one person in the “storm” (so to speak) and the other patiently praying for them. Meanwhile, West sings about using the gospel for protection—by putting your faith in God: your demons tremble, Holy angels defend you.
“Use This Gospel” serves as a dramatization of the hope in “Hands On.” Gospel and prayer beget community and reclamation. Two souls had drifted. Now, they’re reunited. The result? Music.
This dynamic is played out in the soundscape. There’s an alarm-like note that plays from the first chorus, through Pusha’s verse, through the second chorus, and into Malice’s verse. But the moment Malice ends the line Just hold on to your brother when his faith lost that tension-inducing alarm gives way to the grace and felicity of Kenny G’s saxophone. The sax solo is the symbolic and thematic climax of Jesus is King. All of the drama fades. All the conflict. All the words. What remains is simple, mighty, and visceral.

        Jesus Is Lord
      
Following the sax solo on “Use This Gospel,” the final track brings in a saxophone, trombone, trumpet, and tuba. What power a lone sax had on the previous track is multiplied by the additional brass instruments. The orchestra has a power the individual doesn’t. Which reinforces the previous notion that the individual isn’t as strong as the community.
But community is made up of individuals doing their part. The album began with a choir saying you must sing every hour until the power of the Lord comes down. The chorus of “Every Hour” ended with the lines: We need you/We need you/We need you/Oh, we need you. That’s as much about needing God as it is about needing each individual to lend their voice to the collective.
Finally, on “Jesus Is Lord,” Kanye yields his.
