
# Record October Snowfalls Mean Early Skiing In Colorado

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Roger Sands**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rogersands/2019/11/06/record-october-snowfalls-mean-early-skiing-in-colorado/)

Colorado has been gifted an early winter as several ski areas are reveling in record October snowfall. In Summit County, Breckenridge broke its old record of 46 inches when it hit 48, and Keystone's 44 inches was one more than the previous record, reported the Denver Post. Record figures for Arapahoe Basin were not immediately available, but the resort – which amazingly opened on Oct. 11 — tweeted that its snowpack stands at 160% of average. Also, Steamboat, which is scheduled to open Nov. 23, has received 63 inches, shattering its previous record of 40.In addition, Denver broke its record low Oct. 29 max temperature with a high of only 18 degrees, The previous record was a toasty 25 degrees set in 1993, according to CPR News. Colorado Springs didn't want to be left out of the low max fun. Folks there saw a high of 20 degrees. Their previous record was 24 degrees back in 1991.
Winter Park Resort has seen over 40 inches of snow fall throughout October. With excellent natural conditions and amplified snow making systems, thanks to $4 million in recent upgrades, Winter Park opened for the season on Saturday, Nov. 2, the earliest the resort has opened for skiing and riding.
The weekend also marked the beginning of the 80th year of Colorado’s longest continuously running ski resort. On Nov. 16 Winter Park will offer lift tickets for only $40 per person, minimum two lift tickets, to celebrate this milestone. This offer, valid for one day only, is available now.
Skiers and riders who crave variety on the slopes would be well served to consider buying an Ikon Pass, which gives you more destinations to explore. Valid at 41 ski areas, you can select from one of two options depending upon your skiing activity. An Ikon Pass discount is available for active military and retired military located in North America and College students with valid IDs also receive a discount on the Ikon Pass.
The Ikon Pass gives you unlimited access with no blackout dates at such renowned ski resorts as: Zermatt Matterhorn, Switzerland; Thredbo, Mt Buller, Australia; Coronet Peak, The Remarkables, Mt Hutt, New Zealand; Niseko United, Japan; Valle Nevado, Chile; Squaw Valley Alpine Meadows, California; Solitude, Utah; Tremblant, Quebec; and Stratton, Vermont. The Ikon Base Pass includes some blackout dates around certain holidays and is honored at Winter Park, Colorado and Snowshoe, West Virginia. The collective statistics for all Ikon Pass ski areas include five continents, a dozen states, four Canadian provinces, 84,383 total acres, 4,857 trails and 719 lifts.
Access to CMH Heli-Skiing & Summer Adventures is not included on the Ikon Pass or Ikon Base Pass. However, because the most sought-after Heli-Ski trips sell out 18 months ahead, Ikon Pass holders receive early booking privileges. They will be able to select their preferred trip dates to CMH for the following season one day before the General Public and one day after CMH’s valued Million Foot Club members. Ikon Pass holders also receive 10% off any trip to CMH Cariboos, Bugaboos or Bobbie Burns Lodges in the summer.
Here are some projected opening dates, weather permitting: Nov. 8, Copper Mountain, Banff Sunshine; Nov. 9, Mammoth Mountain; Nov. 15, Squaw Valley, Alpine Meadows, Big Bear Mountain Resort; Nov. 16, Loon Mountain; Nov. 22, Tremblant, Big Bear Mountain Resort - Bear Mountain, Crystal Mountain, Snowshoe, Sugarloaf; Nov. 23, Steamboat, Stratton, Solitude Mountain Resort, Sugarbush Resort, Alta, Niseko United; Nov. 28, Aspen Mountain, Snowmass, Taos Ski Valley, Big Sky Resort, Jackson Hole Mountain Resort, Boyne Highlands, Boyne Mountain; Dec. 7, Deer Valley Resort, Aspen Highlands, Buttermilk.
Skiers and riders who are itching to get on the slopes always welcome an early snowfall, and Colorado has delivered in magnificent fashion.
