
# Birth coach ‘hounded out' of profession by transgender activists for claiming only women can have babies

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:17:48+00:00**

Author: **Tim Pearce**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/birth-coach-hounded-out-of-profession-by-transgender-activists-for-claiming-only-women-can-have-babies)

A birth coach in England resigned from Doula U.K., an industry charity, after the group reprimanded her for asserting that only women can give birth.
Lynsey McCarthy-Calvert, 45, was the spokeswoman of Doula U.K. but has stepped down from the organization, according to the Daily Mail. McCarthy-Calvert accused the charity of abandoning her over criticism from a small number of transgender activists offended by her social media post.
"I am angry and sad," McCarthy-Calvert said on Monday. "I was effectively ostracized for saying I am a woman and so are my clients.
"I have been very disappointed by Doula U.K.'s response. The leadership are paralyzed by not wanting to upset transgender rights activists," McCarthy-Calvert continued. "They have fallen over themselves to acquiesce to their demands."
McCarthy-Calvert had written a Facebook post responding to a decision by Cancer Research U.K. to advertise cancer screenings as "relevant for everyone aged 25-64 with a cervix," consciously omitting the word "women" from campaign material.
"I am not a 'cervix owner.' I am not a 'menstruator.' I am not a 'feeling.' I am not defined by wearing a dress and lipstick. I am a woman: an adult human female," McCarthy-Calvert wrote in response. "Women birth all the people, make up half the population, but less than a third of the seats in the House of Commons are occupied by us."
A number of activists responded to McCarthy-Calvert's post accusing the birth coach of making offensive statements toward transgender people. Some asserted that being a woman is not necessary to become pregnant and have a child.
Facing pressure from activists, Doula U.K. launched an investigation into their then-spokeswoman’s assertion that only women can have babies. After several months of investigating, the charity found that McCarthy-Calvert had made trans-exclusionary statements that broke Doula U.K.'s guidelines.
Doula U.K. has denied allegations that the charity pushed McCarthy-Calvert out of her position over her comments or that the board's ruling over her comments was driven by transgender activists.
"We are proud to say that we seek to listen to the lived experience of marginalized groups and make changes – including changes to the language we use – if we believe it is necessary to make the Doula UK community more welcoming and supportive," Doula U.K. said in a statement.
