
# Steven Bonzo Daniel's Bishopbriggs home fails to sell amid claims Crown will seize profits

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Blackstock**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/steven-bonzo-daniels-plush-bishopbriggs-20798407)

A deal to buy Steven “Bonzo” Daniel’s house has fallen through amid claims the Crown would attempt to seize any profit.
The sale of his four-bed detached home in Bishopbriggs, near Glasgow, was on the market for offers over £270,000.
But despite reports that a price was agreed with a mystery buyer, the deal collapsed, the Sunday Mail has revealed.
Sources say there had been concern that the sale had attracted the attention of the authorities, who might go after any money generated from the house sale.
Under Proceeds of Crime legislation, prosecutors can go after houses, luxury goods and cars if they can prove they were bought with money earned through illegal activity.
The law gives authorities the power to act, even if there has never been a conviction.
A source said: “It seemed he was keen to move from the home after everything that has happened. He had a police guard constantly at his home for months.
“Everything was agreed but fell through. The suggestion is the sale was attracting too much attention from the authorities, who might look at the house sale.”
Records show the property was bought by Daniel’s partner Avril Connell in 2003.
It was reported that a sale was agreed in May but in August the house was remortgaged by Ms Connell.
Selling agents had marketed the house as being “cleverly extended and extensively upgraded”.
It offered any new owner “a good degree of privacy” due to its tree-lined gardens.
A Crown Office spokeswoman said: “We can’t comment on the sale of the house – that’s a private matter.”
She added that there were no outstanding Proceeds of Crime confiscation orders against Daniel.
