
# McDonald's unveils Christmas 2019 menu which includes a Matchmaker McFlurry

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:29+00:00**

Author: **Amy Browne, Jamie Hawkins**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink/mcdonalds-unveils-christmas-2019-menu-3511611)

McDonald's has announced which tasty items will be on its Christmas menu this year.
The fast food company revealed earlier on Thursday which delicious sweet treats will be available, including the return of some fan-favourites.
The savory menu will be announced soon, but this is what to expect on the McDonald’s Christmas menu 2019, Liverpool Echo reports.
Millionaire’s Latte  - 198 kcal
A Caramel biscuit syrup adds a sweet touch to this hot latte, which is topped with chocolate cream for added luxury.
Toffee Latte  - 183 kcal
Also topped with cream, this smooth latte is swirled with toffee syrup for a Christmassy touch.
Hot chocolate  - 173 kcal
Creamy chocolatey heaven in a cup.
Millionaire’s Donut  - 250 kcal
This Krispy Kreme-style doughnut is oozing with caramel sauce and topped with icing, crumbly biscuit pieces and a chocolate drizzle.
Chocolate Brownie  - 273 kcal
The ultimate brownie, with melted chocolate and packed with more chocolate chunks.
Mixed Berry Muffin  - 298 kcal
Sprinkled with crunchy granola topping and stuffed full of sweet raspberry jam.
McDonald’s is also set to bring back the popular  Cool Mint MatchMakers McFlurries, on November 20 and it will be available until New Year’s Day 2020. It will be available in mini and regular sizes.
