
# Arsene Wenger explains his theory on why Granit Xhaka lashed out at the Arsenal fans

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:05:39+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-explains-theory-granit-20830620)

Arsene Wenger says Granit Xhaka lashed out at the Arsenal fans because he is a passionate character who is under immense pressure.
Xhaka was stripped of the Gunners captaincy by Unai Emery after a run-in with the fans during the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace at the Emirates.
The Swiss took offence to fans booing him and reacted by storming off the pitch, cupping his ears, swearing and then heading down the tunnel to the changing room.
Xhaka was "devastated" by the incident, according to his boss, who later confirmed that he had taken the armband off him as a direct result of his outburst.
Arsene Wenger bought Xhaka when in charge of Arsenal.
Discussing the midfielder lashing out at the fans, he told BeIN Sports: "You have people with passion, with the pressure they are under, with the disappointment they carry out, they have sometimes reactions you don't want.
"But you have to remind people of the behaviour you want.
"I think Xhaka is an intelligent player, contrary to what I heard in recent weeks. Finally he apologised and that's what he [Emery] wanted from him."
Wenger also explained he is still very much a fan of the north London club he managed for a staggering 22 years.
"I don't talk a lot about Arsenal, I just support them. I'm a supporter who wants a team to win, so that's all," Wenger added.
"For me it's very difficult to have any assessment on Arsenal because it will be straight away interpreted when you've been at the club for such a long time.
"So I'm just a supporter, when they don't win I'm not happy, when they win I'm very happy."
