
# BBC adaptation of His Dark Materials praised by fans as it's compared to Harry Potter

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:54:13+00:00**

Author: **Rose Hill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rose-hill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/bbc-adaptation-dark-materials-praised-20804988)

Viewers lavished the BBC's adaptation of His Dark Materials with praise as the series began tonight.
The epic fantasy, based on the trilogy by author Phillip Pullman, is the most expensive series the BBC has ever screened at £50million.
And while the complex plot, which is shrouded in religious controversy, left some confused, those who had read the books branded it "wonderful".
The fantasy adventure is set in a parallel universe where everyone's souls are manifested in daemons, which are in the form of animals and follow them wherever they go.
His Dark Materials focuses on 14-year-old Lyra Belacqua, played by Dafne Keen, who is an orphan who can lie convincingly and is skilled at reading a truth-telling device.
Also starring A-Listers Ruth Wilson as Marisa Coulter and James McAvoy as Lord Asriel, the series sees Lyra go to the Arctic to try to find her friend who has been kidnapped by the evil Gobblers.
And the BBC's adaptation didn't disappoint fans of the books, who flocked to Twitter to comment.
One tweeted: "Magnificently done. Adapted perfectly, played superbly. Thank you."
While another remarked: " Brilliant! Amazing! Fantastic! Huge fan of the books and a huge fan of the series. Next Sunday cannot come quickly enough!"
A third gushed: "Great new drama His Dark Materials, its tense & gripping, cant wait until next Sunday, love it !"
Another wrote: "This has got Harry Potter film feeling #HisDarkMaterials."

        *His Dark Materials returns next Sunday on 8pm on BBC One
      
