
# SEMA Show 2019: TVS Eurogrip Off-Highway product range showcased

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:58:48+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Chatterjee  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/sema-show-2019-tvs-eurogrip-off-highway-product-range-showcased/)

Indian tyre manufacturer TVS Srichakra that is also one of the largest, showcased their TVS Eurogrip Off-Highway product range at SEMA Show 2019. The range includes Off-Highway Tyres for construction, industrial and agricultural use including farm implements. The SEMA Show is a premier automotive specialty products trade event in the world that takes place between November 5 - 8, 2019 at the Las Vegas Convention Center. The name of the show stands for Specialty Equipment Market Association (SEMA)
Marketed under the TVS Eurogrip brand, TVS Srichakra is showcasing a range of tyres that include Industrial Pneumatic Tyres, Skid Steer Tyres, Multi-purpose Tyres, Floatation Tyres, Tractor Industrial Tyres, Tractor Radial Tyres etc.
Speaking on the participation at SEMA Show 2019, P. Vijayaraghavan, Director, TVS Srichakra, said, "We are glad to be part of the SEMA Show for the second time. We received an encouraging response during the show last year and look forward to a fruitful experience this time too. The USA is an all-important market for the company and the show is an ideal platform to showcase our TVS Eurogrip range of Off-Highway Tyres, which are designed keeping in mind the latest technological advancements and innovations in tyre manufacturing. We actively participate in trade shows across the world every year, this helps us understand markets and our customers better. We derive market insights that help us design and deliver top quality products across the globe and establish ourselves as a leading global tyre brand."
