
# Kristen Stewart Said She Would've Married Robert Pattinson: 'That Was My First Love'

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29702024/kristen-stewart-robert-pattinson-marriage-interview/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_source=twitter)

Kristen Stewart really, really opened up about her relationships during her interview with Howard Stern today, including how seriously in love she was with her Twilight co-star Robert Pattinson when they were dating.
Stern asked if there was a point Stewart thought she'd marry Pattinson. Stewart hesitated at first. "I don’t know, I wanted to…yeah, no, I think I’ve never been in—"
Stern then rephrased his question: "If he proposed, you would’ve gotten married?"
Stewart ultimately admitted yes and that she has felt that way in multiple relationships. "I don’t know. I’m not a super duper traditionalist, but at the same time, like yeah," she said. "Every relationship I’ve ever been in, I thought that was it. I’ve never like casually—maybe one or two, okay, I’m not giving everyone that due. I’ve never really been the most casual person," she admitted.
Stewart told Stern that she couldn't help but fall for Pattinson when working on Twilight with him. "There was nothing I could do," she said with a laugh when the host said falling in love with another actor on set is in his opinion, the biggest mistake.
She explained she had been nervous that their romance would look fake if they were super public about it at the time. "It’s so weird actually being honest about this it’s been so heavily consumed, and I have this fear that people would assume that maybe I’m like, it’s kind of attention-y ‘oh cool you are still pushing that narrative’ or whatever and it’s like no, I’ve actually never been able to say what happened because I was so self-conscious about seeming like an attention-seeker," she said.
"We were together for years, that was my first [love]," she continued, calling him "the best" even now.
Stewart clarified more what really happened with her cheating scandal with Snow White and the Huntsman director Rupert Sanders that ultimately led to her breakup with Pattinson. They did make out in public, she confirmed to Stern (via Radar), but they didn't do anything more intimate than that like some people inferred. Still, she wouldn't call it an innocent thing. "That was a really hard period in my life. I was really young,” she said, later admitting that with Pattinson, "I didn’t know how to really deal with that. I made some mistakes.”
Stewart told Stern now that she "for sure" plans to get married someday. "And in no way is that tied to any weird sort of convention, it’s more just like, when you know you know, you know what I mean?" she said.
"There is nothing like feeling sure about anything because we don’t know anything, and that is the only thing that you can feel like you know, that if you’re in love with someone," she continued. Stewart told Stern she's in love now with her current girlfriend Dylan Meyer and that she "can't f*cking wait" to propose.
