
# Panasonic Launches Two New Lenses For Lumix S Series Full-Frame Digital Cameras

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Sparrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marksparrow/2019/11/06/panasonic-launches-two-new-lenses-for-lumix-s-series-full-frame-digital-cameras/)

Panasonic has made good on its promise to develop lenses for its new range of full-frame mirrorless digital cameras, the Lumix S-Series. Designed for use by professional photographers, the Lumix S Series offers more resolution and flexibility than Panasonic’s Lumix range of Four-Thirds cameras. The Lumix S Pro 70-200mm F2.8 OIS is a wide-aperture telephoto zoom with high descriptive performance across its entire zoom range. The second new lens – the Lumix S Pro 16-35mm F4 – is a versatile wide zoom that offers high-resolution images and great bokeh despite its compact and lightweight design. Both new Lumix S Pro lenses have been built to Leica’s stringent standards.
In addition to the existing portfolio of lenses for the Lumix S series of cameras, Panasonic has committed itself to design and develop a further 11 lenses with the emphasis on the “Lumix S Pro” class by March 2021. Currently, there are more than 46 interchangeable L-Mount lenses are available or will be available from Panasonic, Leica Camera AG, and Sigma, opening up a wide range of creative possibilities. 
The Lumix S Pro 70-200mm F2.8 OIS has been designed and developed for professional field shooting and uses two UED (Ultra Extra-low Dispersion) lenses, three ED (Extra-low Dispersion) lenses, totaling 22 elements in 17 groups. Panasonic claims this effectively suppresses both axial chromatic aberration and chromatic aberration of magnification. Astigmatism is also corrected with aspherical lens design. Panasonic has chosen to use a double-focus system to suppress fluctuation of aberration, even at close subject distances, resulting in sharper performance from the center to the corners, over the entire zoom range, despite the large fixed aperture.
With a focal length of 70-200 mm, the lens includes OIS (Optical Image Stabilizer) which works alongside the S-Series range of cameras that have Body IS and 5-Axis Dual IS 2. This means photographers can use up to a 7-stop slower shutter speed and still produce sharp images. This multiple image stabilization technology makes the system ideal for low-light shooting where the use of a flash isn’t possible or desired. A focus clutch mechanism enables instant switching from autofocus to manual focusing for a more analog feel. 
The constant F2.8 aperture provides smooth defocus gradation from the focus peak to the neighboring area of the image which creates a smooth bokeh effect as well as a richer perspective. Panasonic claims the Lumix S PRO 70-200mm F2.8 OIS. also excels when used for recording video; a special mechanism suppresses focus breathing, which is a serious problem in all interchangeable lenses that are primarily designed for still photography.
The rugged, dust and splash-resistant design of the lens can withstand harsh shooting conditions, even down to 10 degrees below zero. The filter thread is 82 mm and the iris is an 11-blade circular diaphragm design.
The second full-frame lens announced by Panasonic is the Lumix S PRO 16-35mm F4, a versatile wide zoom designed for both photo shooting and video recording. With a dozen elements in nine groups and using three aspherical lenses. the new lens offers high resolution even at the corners when the aperture is used wide open. Panasonic says the lens produces beautiful bokeh, with suppression of vignetting, the dark fall-off that sometimes appears at the edge of an image. 
A double-magnet linear motor has been used for autofocusing and can achieve a maximum of 480 fps. This fast and high precision autofocus performance should ensure that photo opportunities are never missed. Like the 70-200mm F2.8 OIS, the 16-35mm F4 uses the same focus clutch mechanism, offering instant switching between auto and manual focusing. The lens also excels when recording video thanks to a mechanism that suppresses focus breathing.
Designed to operate at temperatures down to 10 degrees below zero, the new 16-35mm zoom is both dust and splash-resistant. The filter-thread is 77 mm and the aperture is a 9-blade circular diaphragm. 
Pricing and availability: Both lenses will go on sale in January 2020. The Lumix S Pro 16-35mm F4 is priced at $1,499 / £1,499, while the Lumix S Pro 70-200mm F2.8 OIS will retail for $2,599 / £2,599.
