
# Glasgow Warriors rout Kings as World Cup stars return in style

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:57:12+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/glasgow-warriors-rout-kings-as-world-cup-stars-return-in-style)

Glasgow’s returning World Cup players helped them to a much-improved performance and a 50-0 win over Southern Kings.
The Warriors controlled play from the start with the Kings looking distinctly unimpressed by a cold and wet evening at Scotstoun.
Glasgow raced to the try bonus in 28 minutes through Grant Stewart, Matt Fagerson, Callum Gibbins and Oli Kebble. Niko Matawalu added a spectacular effort and with Adam Hastings kicking two conversions the Warriors led 29-0 at the break.
Second-half scores from Zander Fagerson and Ratu Tagive were both converted by Hastings, with a penalty try helping swell the scoreline.
The first quarter of the game was played almost entirely in the Kings’ half as the Warriors, benefiting hugely from having their Scotland stars back, marched towards their bonus point.
The first score came in the 10th minute with a lineout drive providing the base for hooker Stewart to dart over.
Next, a typically sharp break from scrum-half George Horne took him to the line with flanker Matt Fagerson getting over.
Stand-off Hastings was running things and his penalty to the corner set up the pack to drive over with captain Gibbins touching down.
In the 23rd minute Kings captain Ruaan Lerm was sin-binned for a dangerous ruck entry and almost immediately Glasgow’s South African prop Kebble ran straight from 15 metres for the fourth try.
The fifth was a spectacular one from fans’ favourite Matawalu. Fed with a long pass by Hastings in his own half, he kicked long and got to the ball first to scoop up at speed prior to scoring.
Before the break, Kings picked up a second yellow card with winger S’bura Sithole the offender and Coyi Banda missed a penalty into the tricky wind.
The second half started with a long pause as Kings centre Erich Cronje was treated initially on the field for a head injury.
Glasgow winger DTH Van Der Merwe almost reached the line but prop Zander Fagerson completed the move and further points followed from Tagive, the penalty try and two Hastings conversions.
