
# IPL Governing Council mulls possibility of mini-IPL or friendlies abroad

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:43:37+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/ipl-governing-council-mulls-possibility-of-mini-ipl-or-friendlies-abroad?utm_medium=rss)


        The IPL governing council is contemplating the proposal of franchises playing a mini-IPL or abroad friendlies and it will be decided only after viewing ICC’s Future Tours Programme. Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders have a huge fanbase and they expressed their desire to explore that abroad.
      
The IPL governing council will decide about playing friendlies abroad or conducting a min-IPL only after having a detailed analysis of ICC’s Future Tours Programme. Many franchises would like to cash in on their popularity abroad especially MI and KKR and abroad friendlies will play a huge role in making this possible.
"It's been discussed and the matter has been filed," an IPL GC member told TOI.
"The issue of allowing IPL franchises to play 'friendlies' was also discussed in the meeting but a final call would be taken only after seeing the ICC Future Tours Programm. We have to check the FTP. We are looking at a small tournament or friendlies for the franchises. We are playing now in March, April and May and after that they have nothing. We want to popularise the game abroad as well, but we have to see the FTP and it is subject to that," he added.
One of the other GC members has said that there is no provision for two IPL franchises to play a match abroad but however, they can play friendlies with a few selective teams from other leagues.
"IPL franchises can play a friendly against Somerset, Durham or Middlesex or Adelaide Strikers. That provision is there but there is no provision for two IPL teams playing friendlies abroad. For that, the modalities of broadcast rights need to be changed and it's not an easy thing," said the member.
"We can't talk about the future but it is not happening right now. Also, some of the bigger teams will not be able to avail their top India players, who will be on a 15-day break post IPL and then play the remainder of the bilateral T20s leading up to the World T20. Also, you need to factor in workload," he added.
