
# Reputation review – one woman's words against a Hollywood bully

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:00:06+00:00**

Author: **Michael Billington**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2019/nov/07/reputation-review-musical-plagiarism-alick-glass)


        The Other Palace, London This new musical by Alick Glass carries its fight against 30s movie plagiarism with pleasant songs, but lacks the showbiz sparkle to land a killer punch
      
This theatre’s downstairs studio is the ideal space in which to try out new musicals but Reputation, with a score and lyrics by Alick Glass, feels more like a throwback than a thrust forward. Set in the 1930s, it deals with a case of showbiz plagiarism. The songs are harmlessly pleasant, but never take you by surprise.
The story, jointly devised by Glass and his daughter, Suzanne, concerns an aspiring writer, Michelle, studying at a language school in Paris. Answering an ad in Variety, she naively sends a novel she has written to a script agency only to find, after her work has been rejected, that it has become the basis for a movie starring Clark Gable and Joan Crawford. Understandably she sues the Hollywood shark who devours other people’s ideas and in the process falls in love with her lawyer.
Given that the thieving villain is called Freddie Larceny and the lawyer Mr Bright, subtlety is not exactly the name of the game. This is also the kind of show where the dancing chorus hymn “Paree” and where we are told of New York that “the bright lights and the Empire State tower over me”. Glass can turn a tune but his lyrics lack tang and bite: it is somewhat surprising, after Michelle has sung a bland number announcing “sweet innocence of youth doesn’t linger”, to hear her praised by the court arbitrator for her verbal dexterity.
The best song, Raindrops, nicely delivered by Priscille Grace, evokes a world of sad ballads. Warren Wills works tirelessly as both musical and stage director and the performances are perfectly decent. Jeremy Secomb as the bubonic plagiarist, Maddy Banks as the wide-eyed writer and Ed Wade as her heart-struck counsel do all that is asked. But, in portraying a vanished period, the show never achieves the exuberant pastiche of The Boy Friend and, although it is unusual to have a musical co-created by a father and daughter, two Glasses don’t in the end make a spectacle.
