
# Why buses will stop at 11am today

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:22:38+00:00**

Author: **Jak Ball**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/buses-stop-11am-tomorrow-3497439)

Buses across Devon and Cornwall are set to pull in at 11am on Monday morning to observe a minute's silence.
The act, which will take place on November 4, is a mark of respect for a driver who was killed in a crash on Thursday, October 31.
London bus driver Kenneth Matcham died when a Skoda allegedly pulled out of a side road in Orpington and collided with two buses.
15 bus passengers were injured in the accident and the driver of the Skoda has been arrested on suspicion of death by dangerous driving and drug driving.
A tweet from Citybus Union said: "Richard has given us permission to pull in at 11 o’clock tomorrow to observe the minutes silence in memory of the driver who was killed in an accident earlier this week.
"To take part in this mark of respect then please pull in at safe location and explain to your passengers why."
Stagecoach will also be paying their respects in the same way, operations director Paul Clark revealed.
Paul said: "I am sure many of you would have seen the sad news last week where a London bus driver was tragically killed in a collision involving another bus and a car.
"I've been made aware through the union that many of you would like to pay their respects to the driver and I have agreed to have a minutes silence at 11am tomorrow.
"This should be done in a similar way to Remembrance Sunday."
London bus drivers have started a JustGiving page to raise money for Mr Matcham's family.
The target was to raise £5,000 but at the time of writing the page had already far surpassed that amount, with over £15,000 donated.
