
# India vs Bangladesh: Comeback man Shardul Thakur raring to go

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:24:45+00:00**

Author: **Amit Kumar**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/india-vs-bangladesh-comeback-man-shardul-thakur-raring-to-go/articleshow/71851363.cms)

NEW DELHI: Mumbai’s star pacer Shardul Thakur became the 294th cricketer to play Test cricket for India last year, but his much-awaited debut with the red ball, in October last year, made headlines for all the wrong reasons.
Shardul was presented the Test cap by Team India coach Ravi Shastri for the second Test against the West Indies at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium in Hyderabad, but the youngster managed to bowl just 1.4 overs before hobbling off the ground with a groin strain, leaving the Hyderabad crowd stunned.
His Test journey didn’t kick off well but a fit-again Shardul is once again set to hit the field in international cricket in the upcoming three-match T20I series against Bangladesh.
"It's a great feeling to be back in the Indian side almost after a year. I can’t express the feeling. I was away from the Indian side for quite some time. I am really happy that I am back where I belong," Shardul told Timesofindia.com in an exclusive interview.
After bowling the fourth delivery of his second over in Hyderabad, Shardul was in considerable pain. He was seen having a conversation with India captain Virat Kohli who, after speaking with the pacer, waved his hands towards the dressing room and asked Shardul to go back to the dressing room.
That was not the first time Shardul had to cut short an international campaign. The Mumbaikar was sent home from the 2018 Asia Cup with hip groin soreness during the Hong Kong clash.
“I was really disappointed when it happened. Who wants to get injured? No one. But I was adamant about making a comeback and I did,” Shardul said.
Shardul was advised rest and some exercise before going into rehabilitation.
“It’s never easy to make a comeback. The first and foremost thing you have to do is to get fit again and then make a mark in domestic circuit. You have to train your body all over again. You have to start from scratch. You have to follow a particular routine and schedule. Be it nutrition, exercise, practice etc, you have to take care of everything. It wasn’t easy for me as well, but I was hungry for a comeback. I just wanted to get back on the field as soon as possible,” the 28-year-old from Palghar said.
“I kept myself motivated in this period. I had only one aim and that was to wear the India jersey again and I did it. I am very happy. I took it one step at a time. I played domestic games after my recovery and then made my way to the India A squads. I went to the NCA and followed all the instructions,” Shardul told TimesofIndia.com.
“I played domestic games, IPL and then India A. I then decided to take a three month break to recover and be fully fit. This period taught me a lot of things,” the 28-year-old said.
Shardul will be playing under Rohit Sharma’s captaincy in the upcoming T20 series vs Bangladesh, since regular skipper Virat Kohli has been rested for the three-match T20I series.
“I have played under him (Rohit) in the Nidahas Trophy as well. I have played a number of times with him. I have watched him play as a kid and looked up to him. It is really great fun to play under him. We have got a good rapport. I have seen him since my childhood. I am hoping for a good series,” Shardul, who made his first-class debut for Mumbai under Rohit's captaincy, said.
“I am completely fit now. I am ready to grab the ball and express myself. I just want to go and contribute as much as possible for the team,” a confident Shardul said.
For Shardul, the international journey has once again started and the right arm medium pacer wants to keep himself fit for any challenge.
“I can fit myself to any format. I am fully fit. I have made it to the T20I squad and will look forward to ODIs and Tests as well. I have a decent experience with the red ball. I want to take my cricketing graph upwards. I want to keep myself fit and play for my country as much as possible. That’s my ultimate motto,” he said.
Shardul also shared the guidance and tips he received from former India captain and his IPL team Chennai Super Kings' skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni.
“He (Dhoni) is the most experienced player in India currently. There is no doubt about that. He has led India and CSK for years. He has played with youngsters and players from older generations as well. He is always there to advise us. I have also learnt a lot from him,” he said.
“He (Dhoni) has taught me how to immediately learn and judge a batsman. Watching a batsman closely, his stance and anticipating what shot he is going to play, these are the things I have learnt from him. Whenever he has shared his immense knowledge with me or any bowler, we have taken it very seriously. We always try to focus on those tips of his,” Shardul signed off.
