
# Tenants shocked after landlord installs 'cage' around thermostat in £700-a-month flat

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:17:06+00:00**

Author: **Megan Baynes**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tenants-shocked-after-landlord-installs-20819267)

Tenants at a flat in London were stunned when their landlord put the thermostat in a cage to stop them adjusting the controls.
Alex Milsom shared a picture of the thermostat on Twitter , where it quickly went viral.
The 21-year-old, who works in publicity, pays £700 month which covers his rent and bills.
Heating is included but is controlled externally by his landlord through a Nest thermostat which has now been locked.
He said: "Hilariously/alarmingly this is a common experience as other people who have replied to my tweet have told me.

        
          Have you suffered from an outrageous landlord? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
        
      
 
"We had the Nest installed earlier this month, and then sometime between Friday night and Saturday afternoon we found our Nest adopted the motto of MC Hammer - namely 'can't touch this' - and lo-and-behold we had no ability to control the thermostat.
"This also affected our ability to control the hot water - and today and yesterday we found our hot water availability in short-supply."
With the temperature getting increasingly frosty, Mr Milsom said he is unable to heat up extra water in the house, and ended up having to shower at work when the hot water ran out.
 
He added: "People across London, the UK, and indeed across the world have replied to my tweet to say about their experiences. From landlords who have taken away heating to landlords who have been even worse, it's a really important discussion that I'm glad we had.
"It was also super endearing how everyone has been willing to support me as well - from free legal advice to everything else under the sun!"
Alex took to social media to share the development.
He shared a photo of the locked-up thermostat with the caption: "Welcome to renting in London!
"My landlord has just put our thermostat in a cage."
 
The post, which has since clocked up more than 34,000 likes online has shocked social media users.
@felixslp wrote: "Is that even legal?"
Danny Tokay Reid added: "Shame on them. This is not cool. Just let people pay their own bills if this bothered about it. #slumlord #rentalnightmare."
And Lara Bailey said: "If it was me, I'd report her (not sure who to tho... maybe the council or someone who deals in housing standards?)
"It's nearly winter! You need to be able to put your heating on! Absolutely ridiculous!"
Polly Neate, chief executive of Shelter, said: "This is yet another example of the raw deal private renters get in England.
"If your home is excessively cold or hot, it can be classed as a hazard under the health and safety rating system for rented homes. It is not acceptable for a landlord to provide an inadequate level of heating.
"And if your landlord is coming into your home without notice, then it could be harassment.
"Shelter's trained advisers are on hand seven days a week to support anyone facing housing problems like this, from poor quality housing to eviction notices. To get advice and support, visit  www.shelter.org.uk/gethelp ."
