
# Behind-The-Scenes With Bear Brooksbank: The British Fine Jeweller Who Travels The World For Inspiration

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bridget Arsenault**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bridgetarsenault/2019/11/02/behind-the-scenes-with-bear-brooksbank-the-british-fine-jeweller-who-travels-the-world-for-inspiration/)

Bear Brooksbank has always been enchanted by precious stones. Having first trained as an actress and then working in a central London contemporary art gallery, Bear returned to her passion in her early twenties, working for Humphrey Butler, a highly respected jewellery dealer in Mayfair. Simultaneously, she trained as a gemologist and designer at the prestigious Gemological Institute of America. In 2012, she established the Bear Brooksbank brand in East London, specialising in bespoke and commission-based projects, whilst also holding a collection of fine jewellery pieces available to buy. Earlier this year, her name rippled through the international press for having designed the bold octagonal ruby and diamond ring Harry Wentworth-Stanley had made to propose to Cressida Bonas - the British actress previously linked to Prince Harry.
1. How did you first setup shop and create the Bear Brooksbank brand, and what were some of the early landmark milestones? I first set up the brand in 2012 with a selection of one-off pieces, ready-to-wear pieces, a curated selection of antique and vintage jewellery, and a full bespoke service. 
2. What are some of the design elements that define your brand and aesthetic? What sets you apart from your competitors? We have a very strong appreciation for, and understanding of, antique jewellery. I was brought up around and have worked in antique jewellery for many years, whilst having an eye for offering a modern take on old ideas. 
3. What advice do you have for other young entrepreneurs? Take risks. Take time to look back at how far you have come, even if the present feels like you’re moving at a snail’s pace. Build relationships with others in the same boat, even if the medium is different. Approach your professional relationships with authority, integrity, humour and kindness. And for me, total trust in my network and extended team is absolutely key. This provides the most wonderful feeling of support. 
4. Talk me through your brand - the bespoke, vintage and core collection - and why you've developed your brand in this way? I have never written a business plan and so my approach has been instinct-led and one of trial and error. Bespoke pieces will always be the core of our brand and pivotal to the business, and the ready-to- wear collections and the antique and vintage collection have been built around this. We want to be a one-stop-shop for our clients, bringing back that old-fashioned idea of having a family jeweller. 
5. When you meet someone at a party, how do you describe what you do? I work in jewellery. I am a bit shy about talking about what I do when not at work, so I tend to loosely say that I work in jewellery and move on. 
6. Walk me through the experience and chronology when someone contacts you to create a bespoke piece through to when you deliver the finished product? The bespoke process tends to take three months from the initial consultation, either by phone or at the showroom, to delivery of the piece. I like the design part of the process to feel leisurely and relaxed, so the client feels they have time and can really immerse themselves in the experience. The actual hand-making of the piece by our master craftsmen in Hatton Gardens takes around six weeks. 
7. What has been the biggest pinch-me moment so far? There have been a few star-studded ones, but really what has and always will give me the greatest sense of achievement and pleasure is seeing a client genuinely moved by a piece of jewellery that I have designed. Our relationship to jewellery is so heavily led by sentiment and a sense of occasion, and it’s such a joy to be a part of this.
9. Tell me about the most unusual stones you've used and how you source them? It would have to be a peach-coloured garnet from a stone cutter I greatly admire (Top Notch Faceting). It was love at first sight. We source stones mainly here in London, and the source depends on the kind of material we are looking for. 
10. What do you know now that you wish you had known starting out? Trust your own judgement, it will always see you right. Because ultimately everyone is winging it. Allow others to help and be humble. 
11. What are the trends you've picked up on around how people buy and wear jewellery in 2019 and how that has changed over the past few years? In terms of engagement rings I would say that 50 percent of couples now enter the process together rather than the man doing it on his own and proposing with a ready- made ring. Target rings are certainly making a huge comeback, which is music to my ears. 
12. Tell me about some of the most unusual places you've found vintage pieces or how do you go about beginning to assemble a collection of vintage wares? We buy antique and vintage pieces from all over the world. Often clients will bring in pieces to sell that they no longer wear or want to put the funds towards something new or bespoke. In terms of curating the collection, we only buy things that we would like to wear ourselves; it’s worked so far!
14. How has social media changed what you do? We get a lot of enquiries though Instagram. It’s a much more informal way of sharing our work than the website, and it gives a behind-the-scenes feel that our clients love and we love to share. 
