
# 'The problem with them' - West Brom star gives Stoke City verdict ahead of clash

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:28:26+00:00**

Author: **Josh Murray**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/the-problem-them-west-brom-17197722)

Darnell Furlong is expecting West Bromwich Albion to come up against a "fighting" Stoke City side when they meet in the Championship tonight.
The Baggies head to the bet365 Stadium knowing a victory will return them to the top of the table, while the Potters begin life without Nathan Jones, following his sacking as manager last week.
Stoke are bottom of the division after 14 matches, having won only twice this season.
But West Brom full-back Furlong - who has made 12 appearances so far in 2019-20 - believes the Potters' current situation could make them dangerous opposition.
"That's the problem with them - we know they are going to be fighting at the moment, they're going to be really strong with their attitude and we know what type of football to expect," he told the club's website.
"They’ve got a lot of big names, a lot of signings in the summer who are trying to prove themselves, so it’s going to be a very tough game.
"There are no easy games in the Championship but that is going to be an extremely tough one.
"I was at QPR with Jordan Cousins last season and when he went there I thought, that’s a great move for him, they’re going to be challenging at the top end of the table.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
"I was very surprised with how they’ve been doing recently, but I’m sure they’ll pick up and will be fighting back in the second half of the season.”
