
# Pop legends Westlife are coming to Plymouth

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rom Preston-Ellis**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/music-nightlife/pop-legends-westlife-coming-plymouth-3487879)

Irish pop band Westlife have announced that they will be performing in Plymouth next summer.
The hugely successful boy band are set to bring their Stadiums in the Summer tour to Home Park on July 4 2020.
The announcement follows the success of Westlife’s comeback and comes as the band prepares to release their brand new album Spectrum on November 15.
The band will also perform all of their greatest hits including Swear It Again, Flying Without Wings and You Raise Me Up.
The Plymouth date is presented by live music promoters Cuffe and Taylor and follows the success of this summer's Twenty Tour - Westlife’s fastest selling tour of all time.
"The reaction to our comeback tour was beyond anything any of us ever imagined so we’re going to do it all over again but this time in some of the largest outdoor venues in the UK," said the band.
"The shows are going to be incredible and will include all our greatest hits.
"We can’t wait to perform at Home Park."
Westlife last performed at Home Park in June 2008 when 18,000 fans turned out to watch them perform.
Speaking about the Stadiums in the Summer tour coming to Home Park, Plymouth Argyle chief executive Andrew Parkinson said: “We are thrilled that Westlife are making a triumphant return to Home Park after their memorable concert in 2008.
“It is a pleasure for us to be hosting the eagerly-anticipated show by one of the most successful groups of all time in the UK as part of the city of Plymouth’s Mayflower 400 celebrations, and we are looking forward to welcoming everyone to the new Mayflower Grandstand.”
Westlife have sold more than 55 million records worldwide and are the only band to have their first seven singles enter the UK chart at number one.
They also have the most singles of any artist to debut at number one in the UK.
Overall the band have had 14 number one singles, behind only Elvis Presley and The Beatles.

        Tickets go on sale at 9am Friday, November 8, from Ticketmaster.
      
Pre-sale tickets will go on sale at 9am Tuesday November 5 and can be accessed by pre-ordering Spectrum.
