
# Dubai Fitness Challenge 2019: Global Village hosting free yoga

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/422187-dubai-fitness-challenge-2019-global-village-hosting-free-yoga)

There’s nothing like a good stretch in the morning to kick-start the weekend, especially if it’s a free-to-attend yoga class to knock out your 30 minutes of fitness a day.Global Village is setting up a huge Yoga Day Out as part of the Dubai Fitness Challenge 2019, hosted by professional yogis and ambassadors from sports brand lululemon. Prepare that activewear.Setting up two 60-minute classes from 7am until noon on Friday November 8, yogis around Dubai won’t need to worry about space, as the entertainment destination is ready to welcome up to 3,100 participants. There’s a lot of stretching to be done.The first class at 8am hosted by yogis Allie McLaughlin and Neha Duseja will be a vinyasa-style class that’s all about building strength in the body. The duo will be trying out new poses for everyone to learn but be wary, the class is designed to make you work up a sweat.After an hour break, the second class at 10am will see Neha and Allie return for a more chilled yoga session, working on getting deeper into your stretches by holding poses for longer periods of time.The class will finish off with relaxed breathing techniques and a meditation to keep your mind fresh.For the rest of the time, yogis are free to do their own stretching around Global Village’s open garden.Fancy a few cobra poses in the morning? Get yourself registered to the one-off yoga session by visiting www.globalvillage.ae/yoga-day-out.If you’re taking a cab to Global Village, you’re in luck, as there are now exclusively cheaper taxis to park via the new DTC app.There are plenty of ways to get fit for the Dubai Fitness Challenge 2019, and you can check them all out right here.We’re prepared to feel nice and limber this weekend…Free. Fri Nov 8, 7am-noon. Global Village, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Road, globalvillage.ae.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
