
# Cuomo mocked for declaring ‘We didn’t have hurricanes̵

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Valerie Richardson**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/cuomo-mocked-declaring-we-didnt-have-hurricanes-ne/)

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo declared Friday that New York had never been hit by hurricanes or other strong storms before climate change, prompting double-takes and fact-checks from those who haven’t forgotten, for example, Hurricanes Hazel, Carol and Edna.
The Democratic governor’s comments came after he toured flooding in upstate New York brought by a fierce Halloween storm that brought winds of up to 60 mph and as much as five inches of rain in some areas.
“Anyone who questions extreme weather and climate change is just delusional at this point,” Mr. Cuomo told MSNBC in an interview. “We have seen in the state of New York what everyone has seen—we see these weather patterns that we never had before. We didn’t have hurricanes. We didn’t have super storms. We didn’t have tornadoes.”
Meteorologist Ryan Maue quipped, “Um, yeah, not so much, @NYGovCuomo,” tweeting, “Cuomo has a history of making false statements about the weather and climate of New York. Hopefully he can get better informed.”
A Google search of “New York hurricanes” showed the state has been hit by an estimated 84 tropical or subtropical cyclones since the 17th century, including three in 1954 — Hurricanes Hazel, Carol and Edna — as well as the New England Hurricane of 1938, which hit Long Island as a Category 3 and left 60 dead in New York alone.
Climate Depot’s Marc Morano pointed to findings showing that major hurricanes are actually on the decline. NOAA has noted a “negative trend” since the late 1800s in hurricanes making U.S. landfall, while other research has shown no increase in global hurricane activity.
An updated Journal of Climate study by Mr. Maue, Roger A. Pielke Jr. and Jessica Weinkle, all of whom hold Ph.D.s, of global tropical cyclone landfalls from 1970-2018 found “no significant trends.”
 
