
# Adobe XD does collaborative editing now, just like Figma

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dami Lee**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/4/20938310/adobe-xd-live-editing-collaborative)

Adobe XD, the design prototyping software, is introducing a coediting feature in beta today that lets users work with other designers in real time. Coediting allows users to work in the same document in Creative Cloud, so team members can collaborate on projects without doubling up on files.
Users will be able to see when other teammates are working on the document, and see what artboards and objects they’re currently editing. It’s basically like Google Docs for user experience design, and also happens to be the same core feature that Adobe XD competitor Figma is known for, with its Multiplayer editing.
Users can choose to opt in to the feature and enable co-editing on cloud documents, which will allow them to invite teammates to start editing. Work is automatically saved in cloud documents periodically, and there’s also a documents history tab that shows previous versions. Document history is saved for up to 30 days, and there’s a neat feature that lets you bookmark and rename specific versions. Bookmarking is especially useful for keeping track of big milestones, like if you make a significant change in a design project.
Adobe XD is also introducing a new Share mode which lets users create web links to their work. Projects can be set to different sharing presets depending on the use case, such as design reviews, development hand-off presentations, and user testing. Like Google Docs, users can manage access permissions and password protect their work.
Coediting will be included in all plan levels. Users on paid plans will have unlimited access to all sharing and collaboration features, while users on the free XD starter plan will have the same unlimited access until April 2020. For more details, you can read about more Adobe XD updates here.
