
# Tulsi Gabbard Says Democratic Party Policy Based Only on Opposing GOP

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:20:57+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911071077249818-tulsi-gabbard-democrats-decision-opposing-gop/)


        The Hawaii Congresswoman pledged to completely transform how the Democratic Party operates if she is elected president, setting herself at odds with Democratic heavyweights, including former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
      

        1. Opposing Trump’s Middle East Policy
      

        2. Gabbard on 'Foreign Agent' Smear
      

        3. Clinton-Gabbard Showdown
      
2020 Democratic presidential hopeful Tulsi Gabbard, representing Hawaii in the US Congress, has lambasted party fellows for tribalism. Asked by Breitbart News Daily if her party still deserves to be branded “anti-war”, she responded that, it does not, “anymore.”
The Hawaiian Congresswoman took aim at Republican President Donald Trump, lambasting him for violating his promise to withdraw US troops from Syria, saying he just moved “from one part of Syria to another part of Syria” allowing Turkey to proceed with its “ethnic cleansing and slaughter” of the Kurds. She also criticised US sanctions against the Syrian government and said that it is the people there who suffer from them, not those running the nation.
Gabbard spoke in favour of using special forces to counter terror in the war-torn Middle Eastern country, instead of what she described as “regime change war” and defended her 2017 meeting with President Bashar al-Assad, saying that he had agreed to hold fair elections, in principle. As for closer US ties with Saudi Arabia, the representative slammed the US providing military support, insisting that Washington should get back to the JCPOA Iran nuclear deal.
She reiterated her calls for a 're-set' of US foreign policy to exclude intervention in any form. Tweeting a video of her interview, she lambasted those who try to shut down meaningful debate by their “foreign agent” smear.
In the clip, she accuses opponents of resorting to smear tactics and says that she does not support intervention in any form, whether it be from Russia or any other foreign country.
