
# Frankfurt routs 10-man Bayern 5-1 in Bundesliga

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CIARÁN FAHEY**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/2/frankfurt-routs-10-man-bayern-5-1-in-bundesliga/)

BERLIN (AP) - Eintracht Frankfurt routed 10-man Bayern Munich 5-1 in the Bundesliga to give visiting coach Niko Kovac an unhappy return to his former side on Saturday.
Kovac, who coached Frankfurt to a German Cup win over Bayern in 2018, saw his former side end its 16-game winless run against the Bavarian powerhouse.
“Even with one player less, you shouldn’t lose 5-1 here. It’s disappointing,” said Kovac, who is coming under increasing pressure after a series of disappointing performances.
To questions about his future, he said, “How I feel is not important. The ones who decide are the ones who should be asked.”
Bayern’s Jérôme Boateng was sent off in the 10th minute for bringing down Gonçalo Paciência as the last defender. Referee Markus Schmidt initially awarded the home side a penalty after Paciência fell in the area, but changed it to a free kick after consulting video replays.
Filip Kostic scored in off the far post in the 25th, and Djibril Sow made it 2-0 after more speedy Frankfurt play nine minutes later.
But Bayern can still count on Robert Lewandowski. The Poland striker showed all his prowess to elude two defenders with a turn before prodding the ball past Frederik Rönnow in the 37th.
With that, Lewandowski extended his Bundesliga record of scoring in the first 10 league games.
It was as good as it got for Bayern, however, with David Abraham, Martin Hinteregger and Paciência all scoring in the second half to deal the defending champion its second defeat of the season.
It leaves Bayern four points behind league leader Borussia Mönchengladbach, which stayed one point clear with a 2-1 win at Bayer Leverkusen.
Also, Leipzig routed hapless Mainz 8-0, Borussia Dortmund beat previously unbeaten Wolfsburg 3-0 and Werder Bremen drew with Freiburg 2-2.
Union Berlin was hosting Hertha Berlin in the first Bundesliga derby between the city’s biggest clubs later Saturday, one week before it marks 30 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall.
More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/Soccer and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports
Ciarán Fahey on Twitter: https://twitter.com/cfaheyAP

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
