
# Joe Biden acknowledges he's losing ground to Democratic rivals

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:02:12+00:00**

Author: **Naomi Lim**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/joe-biden-acknowledges-hes-losing-ground-to-democratic-rivals)

Joe Biden predicts reporters and pundits will go easier on him now that the Democratic race for the White House has tightened.
The former vice president and White House hopeful teleconferenced with donors on Tuesday as Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, both of whom outraised him by about $10 million over the summer, inch closer to him in the polls.
Per a pool report, Mark Stutzman of New York, pressed Biden during the call on how the 36-year Delaware senator can convince Democrats he is both liberal enough to excite the party's activist base and a centrist able to appeal to independents and moderates so Democrats are best positioned to beat President Trump next year.
“Well, I think what’s starting to happen, is the press is now starting to, I think it's fair to say, I'm not complaining and it's just a reality, that the press has spent an awful lot of time the last five months, challenging me," he responded, with a laugh. "Going after me. And now I think you see that change, now that other candidates have risen. Although we are still above 30% in the national polls, in almost every one. I think you're going to see more focus on the reality, and in the efficacy, and the straightforwardness of the plans being put together by other candidates. And I think we're now going to get into a comparative notion of who's for what and what can get done."
Just two weeks ago, Biden insisted he was the front-runner for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination.
"I know I'm the front-runner. Find me a national poll with a notable — a couple exceptions — but look, this is a marathon," he told CBS' "60 Minutes" in October.
Biden also inflated his support in the polls. Although he continues to lead Warren (20.6%) and Sanders (16%) in RealClearPolitics' averages with 29.1% of the vote, his popularity falls below his own 30% watermark. In the 24 surveys aggregated by RealClearPolitics last month, the former vice president only scored 30% or greater in 11, not even half.
Last month, Biden's campaign finance woes were exacerbated by a backlash over his super PAC position reversal, denying he'd shifted his stance from condemning "dark money" political action committees to accepting their help.
[Read more: Play-nice approach of 2020 Democrats threatens to hand Trump a reelection advantage]
