
# Canadians with Down syndrome help teach Google how to understand speech

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Camille Bains, The Canadian Press**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/sci-tech/canadians-with-down-syndrome-help-teach-google-how-to-understand-speech-1.4672211)

VANCOUVER -- Anyone who's been frustrated with digital voice assistants Google, Alexa or Siri misunderstanding commands to play a certain song or access online information may find themselves pointlessly arguing with technology, but imagine the ubiquitous devices messing up every third word you say.
That's what Google estimates people with Down syndrome experience because of speech difficulties associated with physiological differences in their mouths.
The Canadian Down Syndrome Society launched a campaign this week to help Google improve its voice-recognition technology by encouraging people with the condition to record phrases online as part of Project Understood to train the tech giant's technology to better understand those with speech impairments.
Matthew MacNeil, 29, volunteered to donate his voice by logging on to a website and recording phrases such as "the boy ran down the path," "flowers grow in a garden" and "strawberry jam is sweet."
The society partnered with Google, which launched Project Euphonia last year to improve their voice-recognition systems for people with speech impairment, starting with those who have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease, which gradually weakens muscles and affects speech.
MacNeil's efforts to use a digital voice assistant have been frustrating.
"I had to repeat myself many times. Then I gave up," he said from Tillsonburg, Ont.
The goal is to use the technology to become more independent, said MacNeil, who works at a grocery store collecting carts, a word he substituted after "buggies" wasn't understood.
That's something he's experienced multiple times with the Google Home assistant, which mistook his hometown of Tillsonburg as "smoke" and the Ontario city of Peterborough as "people" before announcing: "My apologies. I don't understand."
