
# Yap Stone Gets Listed on 8 Exchanges, Giveaways Happening Simultaneously

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:19:16+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/yap-stone-gets-listed-on-8-exchanges-giveaways-happening-simultaneously/)

Yap Stone (YAP), the native asset of the Yap Chain Foundation, got listed on eight notable cryptocurrency exchanges earlier this week, with at least four of them having YAP giveaway events.
Users are now able to trade YAP on their preferred crypto exchanges, which are BW, DragonEx, Coinbene, DigiFinex, Coinsuper, Coinall, IDAX, and P2PB2B. Deposit began for each exchange on November 4, while trading opened the following day.
Moreover, half of the said exchanges are celebrating this success by giving away YAP to users through various activities, and all are welcome to join in the fun and have their share of the YAP giveaways.
Coinsuper and CoinAll have already begun with their respective trading competitions, which will conclude on November 10 for Coinsuper, and November 12 for CoinAll.
For its part, IDAX is having a snapshot event, wherein it will take a photo of its users’ daily YAP holdings, and will hand out additional YAP according to the number of the tokens they hold. Users can still join the event as it will last until November 14.
Finally, DigiFinex will be airdropping 60,000 YAP candies to its users. Users only need to deposit YAP and DigiFinex Token (DFT) to participate in the said event and earn interest.
Yap Chain Foundation is proud of this milestone, as it believes that getting its token listed all at once at its target exchanges is something worth celebrating. CEO Lloyd Park said in a Yap Chain Press Release, that they had indeed planned to enter the market meaningfully through the simultaneous listing of their token on eight of the world’s top exchanges.
Established in 2018, Yap Chain Foundation is a non-profit organization that focuses on providing a smart city platform with the use of blockchain technology. YAP will be instrumental to the success of the foundation’s vision.
According to the Yap Stone Whitepaper, YAP will be used to “formulate a shared economy platform that will distribute profits generated by the community back to the [very] community.” Furthermore, the foundation expects YAP to become the “key currency of smart city,” a “cryptocurrency with credibility and guarantee.”
These recent events are only some of the things that Yap Chain Foundation has in mind; more events will be announced soon. For further information on the above-mentioned giveaways, please visit the respective exchanges’ event links. Users are also encouraged to standby for further events and announcements that will come from the foundation.

        
          This is a paid-for submitted press release. CCN does not endorse, nor is responsible for any material included below and isn’t responsible for any damages or losses connected with any products or services mentioned in the press release. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the press release.
        
      
