
# Cold Weather Payments open today giving you £25 off your energy bill every week

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/cold-weather-payments-open-today-20766479)

Thousands of people will be able to claim a discount on their energy bill from today, as the Government’s Cold Weather Payments scheme finally opens for winter.
The benefit, designed to support those ‘at risk’, pays £25 a week to vulnerable households who experience periods of especially freezing weather.
This is defined as zero degrees or less for seven or more consecutive days – and is based on official Met Office readings.
The scheme is run by the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) and is available from November 1 until March 31, every year.
The payments will not affect any other state support you receive and will be paid automatically into the same bank or building society account as the one used to pay your benefits, such as universal credit.
Those eligible will usually receive their money within 14 working days.
There are an estimated 3.8million eligible recipients for Cold Weather Payments in the UK, the DWP said.
 
Anyone in receipt of the following benefits is eligible for the cold weather payment:
To check if a payment is due in your area, click here.
In addition, people meeting at least one of the following criteria can receive the payment:
 
To check if you are eligible for a cold weather payment, enter your postcode into the Government’s Cold Weather Payments postcode checker.
“It’s critical that the most vulnerable get support when they need it most and sustained periods of cold weather can cause people to worry about their fuel bills," Minister for Welfare Delivery Will Quince said.
"We know how important it is that people keep their homes warm during any cold snap, and cold weather and winter fuel payments enable them to do so."
Find out more on all of the energy discounts available to you, here.
