
# Jennifer Aniston confesses to 'isolating herself at home sometimes'

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:42:35+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/jennifer-aniston-confesses-isolating-herself-20829361)

Jennifer Aniston has shared on the downsides of being a home body and how her own experience links in with her latest role.
The Hollywood actress, 50, who recently joined Instagram , has confessed that she "loves being home" as it is her "safe space" but has to be conscious as she "finds herself at times isolating."
Speaking to Glamour magazine, alongside her The Morning Show co-star Reese Witherspoon, Brad Pitt's ex revealed how she relates to her character of TV show host Alex Levy, who struggles to keep her job after Mitch Kessler (played by Steve Carrell) is fired for sexual misconduct.
Jennifer shared: "I find myself at times isolating a little bit more, staying in - I love being home. Home is a very comfortable, safe space for me. But if you stay home for too long you will become isolated and lose touch with what's going on in the real world."
Sharing how that is similar to that of her on-screen role, she continued: "So that's something I related to Alex on as she done that. She has sort of lost touch in a way and is trying to just survive what's going on with her personally, her child, her relativity, you know what I mean? And relevance and just staying there."
It comes as Jennifer is lifting the lid on workplace sexism in the media in her new TV programme The Morning Show, two years after the MeToo scandal swept across the world.
The star is calling for more to be done to tackle sexual harassment in the workplace as she plays a news anchor hit by news of her colleague's inappropriate behaviour in the new series being streamed on Apple TV+.
In the series, Jennifer's character Alex sets out to expose the network's culture of silence that has protected Mitch from facing justice, Alex must also rebut her rival Bradley Jackson (Reese Witherspoon)'s efforts to take her place in the hierarchy.
The three-parter's plot was inspired by the downfall of clean-cut Today Show host Matt Lauer , who was fired by NBC in 2018 over allegations he'd sexually harassed colleagues for 20 years.
"There's this absolute denial – 'It was consensual, it was consensual' – if you're a narcissist to the degree a lot of these guys are," Jennifer told the Guardian .
"They think, 'of course every woman wants to sleep with me'."
She and Reese, who played sisters on Friends, are producing The Morning Show together in the wake of their many decades in showbiz - and believe it can go some way towards shining a light on sexism in media.
"We have to change the power structures. Just the fact that she and I are producing our own material, and things are starting to get better in terms of equal gender [representation] in rooms of power, that’s going to prevent a lot of workplace misconduct," Reese told the newspaper.
"This is not an echo chamber of women talking about. It's actually a very gender-balanced conversation because we need men watching the show. Real change doesn't happen unless the incumbent power structure accepts it."
Reese has previously opened up about her own MeToo experience, revealing in 2017 that she had been sexually assaulted by a director at the age of 16.
"I wish I could tell you that was an isolated incident in my career but, sadly, it wasn't," she said at the time.
"I've had multiple experiences of harassment and sexual assault... [I felt] guilt for not speaking up earlier.
Jennifer, meanwhile, has spoken of her run-in with Harvey Weinstein, who stands accused of multiple allegations of sexual offences against a range of women - which he denies.
"I remember, right when [Harvey's ex-wife] Georgina’s clothing line Marchesa was starting. That's when he came to visit me in London while we were shooting," Jennifer told Variety magazine.
"He'd be like, 'Ok, so I'd like you to wear one of these to the premiere.' And I went through the book, and at the time, it wasn't what it is today. It was not for me. He was like, 'You have to wear the dress.' That was my only bullying. And I was like, 'No, I will not wear the dress.'"
She added: "What was he going to do? Come over here and make me wear it?!"

        
          *The Morning Show is streaming on Apple TV+ now
        
      
