
# Cars, real estate, cash seized from ‘Mama Manee’ in Udon Thani

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:18:08+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bangkok**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bangkok/news/cars-real-estate-cash-seized-from-mama-manee-in-udon-thani/)

Police today raided properties belonging to the accused scammer known as Mama Manee in search of evidence and assets involved in the high-profile case. 
Udon Thani police kicked things off this morning by searching five properties in the province linked to self-proclaimed net idol Wanthanee “Dear” Tippaveth, one day after they seized about THB100 million (US$3,300,000) in assets from the woman suspected of fleecing thousands, according to multiple media reports. Among those assets are a Bangkok home worth over THB30 million a commercial building in Udon Thani valued at THB22 million, as well as a Mercedes, BMW and numerous bank accounts with millions each. 

        ‘Mama Manee’ and husband linked to massive Thai scam in court today
      
Officials are also reportedly seeking arrest warrants for 10 more people they believe were involved in the massive “share” scheme. Their identities have not been made public as the investigation is ongoing.
Wanthanee was arrested Saturday along with her 20-year-old husband Metee Chinpaafter being tracked to a motel in Chonburi province. 
The two have been charged with fraud, entering false information online and violating the Computer Crime Act in an alleged scam which promised investors up to a 93% return on their money. They are accused of stealing upward of THB800 million (US$27 million) from about 3,000 people.

        Thousands more accuse Thailand’s ‘Mama Manee’ of hustling them
      
Wanthanee, 30, remains in custody and maintains her innocence. 
The scam they are accused of running was presented as the kind of traditional money-pooling system people contribute amounts of money to that pays out to members on a rotating basis. Thais call it share.

        Related:
        
          
        
        ‘Mama Manee’ and husband linked to massive Thai scam in court today
      

        Thousands more accuse Thailand’s ‘Mama Manee’ of hustling them
      

        Mama Manee! Thai woman accused of bilking untold billions in massive scheme
      
