
# Grave of mysterious Plymouth slave owner lies in city cemetery

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter Chapman**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/grave-mysterious-plymouth-slave-owner-3459526)

A grave lies in Plymouth's Ford Park Cemetery that is the resting place of one of the city's most mysterious and controversial figures.
Records show how William Bovell made the equivalent of £1m in today's money under the Slave Compensation Act.
The act was introduced to pay the former slave owners, or their claimants, for their loss of assets after slavery was abolished in 1833.
Nothing was paid to the newly liberated people.
But he wasn't only person with links to the city who profited from the abolition of slavery.
Below is a list of those who according to a UCL project were claimants or beneficiaries of compensation after slavery was abolished, and how they are linked to Plymouth. Recognise any names?
William Bovell may have the strongest ties in Plymouth of anyone on this list. He was a partner in a Liverpool merchant firm and lived at North Hill Place, Plymouth.
In a way, you can still see him because he was buried at Ford Park Cemetery along with his daughter Charlotte. Perhaps his descendants could still live here.
The kind staff at Ford Park Cemetery were able to tell us that the vault William and Charlotte are buried in cost £18 at the time, which was listed as 16/05/1851. In today’s money that £18 is around £2,500.
There are six compensation claims listed for William Bovell and from the information available it seems those six claims cover at least 162 enslaved people. The compensation fees add up to nearly £8,000, which is estimated to equal around £1,000,000 today.
William’s father, John, was buried in Barbados in 1816. William died aged 55 in 1851 in Plymouth.
In his will he left a legacy of £50 (nearly £7,000 today) to his niece, 'daughter of my brother John residing in the Island of Barbados.'
Sir John Hawkins is a controversial figure in Plymouth's history
His connection with our city is strong, as is his and Plymouth's connection to the slave trade.
He is alleged to be the first English slave trader and sailed from Plymouth in 1562 to the west coast of Africa where he kidnapped around 400 African men and women.
Some believe he was simply a victim of his time. Others, including a man claiming to be a descendant of Hawkins, feel it's something that should be apologised for.
After the abolition of slavery in 1833, the Slave Compensation Act (1837) was introduced to pay the former slave owners, or their claimants, for their loss of assets. Nothing was paid to the newly liberated people.
Eliza Lee Brodbelt, James Lee Brodbelt and Thomas Lee Brodbelt were creditors on three estates in Clarendon St Catherine and St John. The three were the 'reputed children' of Francis Rigby Brodbelt Stallard Penoyre (ne Brodbelt) who died in England in 1827.
Their mother was Jemima Johnson Lee and their paternal grandmother was Anne Brodbelt née Anne Penoyre, a British–Jamaican letter writer and social observer.
James and Thomas graduated as doctors of medicine from Edinburgh University in 1824 and they were listed as 'from Jamaica.'
In 1826 James Lee Brodbelt married Charlotte Varlo Stransham in St Mary Magdalene, Woolwich, England. He is also linked to an unspecified Plymouth address.
James Lee Brodbelt and his wife emigrated to Columbus, Ohio, in 1848, where Brodbelt Lane is thought to be named after them. According to a 2008 report in the Columbus Dispatch, James 'moved in abolitionist circles'.
William Bremner MD was a slave owner on Dominica, who returned to England shortly before his death in 1828.
The doctor of medicine left an annuity of £240 pa to his wife Jane, £100 to be paid from the Aberdeen coffee plantation on Dominica and £140 from the income on his holding in the British funds.
He explained that with the income on a further £1500 held by his uncle James Laing of Streatham and his cousin Allan Stewart Laing of Hatton Garden, his wife would have an income of £300 pa.
He left Aberdeen to his eldest son James Laing Bremner, £2000 each to his two daughters and an aspiration of £2000 each to his five younger sons, who were his residuary legatees:
If there was enough to meet the payment of £2000 to each, then he instructed that the debt of £2000 owed to him by his eldest son James Laing Bremner be forgiven, not otherwise.
His will was proved while he was at an unlisted address in Plymouth although it has been suggested that planters from North East Scotland often gave their Caribbean properties names that reminded them of home, so maybe he was born in Aberdeen.
In 1817 a government slave census recorded that there were almost 300 slaves named Aberdeen in the British West Indies.
Amelia Mais was the daughter of Charles Mais, a hat manufacturer, and his second wife Elizabeth Corne nee Pownall.
She inherited a share in Silver Hill estate in St Andrew, Jamaica, in trust on the death of her uncle James Corne Pownall in 1824.
Amelia Mais was admitted as a private patient at Longwood Asylum in Somerset 1849 and discharged in 1876 as 'relieved' rather than 'recovered' on the same day she was admitted to Plympton Lunatic Asylum in Devon.
In 1881 Amelia Mais, age 67, born Marchmarydon, Gloucestershire, was living in the Plympton Lunatic Asylum, George Lane, Plympton St Mary, Devon.
Administration of the personal estate of Amelia Mais, of Plympton House in Devon, spinster, who died 23/09/1889 at Plympton House was granted to Rebecca Bryde (wife of Henry Charles Bryde) of Goytrey near Pontypool in Monmouthshire, the sister and one of the next of kin.
The 1851 census showed Francis Glanville, born in St Germans, aged 53 at Derriford House, Eggbuckland with wife Annabel, born in London, aged 54.
Also at the address were Harriott (14), Jemima (27), and George Julius (19).  
Glanville was awarded compensation for Hector's River, Jamaica, with a group of others. Probably trustees for the family of the owner Col. Jasper Taylor Hall.
The 1861 census shows Francis Glanville aged 62 born St Germans living at Brampton, Hunts, with amongst others Sarah Thompson born Stonehouse Devon, a visitor aged 30.
The 1881 census shows Francis Glanville at Stratford under Castle Wiltshire, no profession, annuitant aged 83 born St Germans with Sarah his wife aged 57 born Stonehouse Devon. The same Stonehouse Sarah that was a 'visitor' 20 years previously? The ages don't quite match but I like to think so.
The death of Francis Glanville aged 84 was registered in Alderbury, Wiltshire in 1881.
Edward Rodon Huggins was a purser in the Royal Navy, namely aboard the Andromache, a small West India proprietor on the East India station with Lord Napier on the expedition to China.
Once of Laira Green, Plymouth, he was awarded compensation for 19 enslaved people in St Catherine, Jamaica.
His wife Emily Pakenham Huggins, in Lipson, wrote in a letter: 'the task of bringing to a settlement his affairs in Jamaica devolves to me.'
Jane Agnes Wilhelmina Rich was awarded one-third of the compensation for Schepmoed in British Guiana (Guyana) with her husband George Frederick Rich.
The other two-thirds went to Charles Henry Fraser and to Charlotte Mary Ann Woodford and her husband Sir Alexander Woodford, a Field Marshall in the British Army. The women were the sisters of Charles Henry Fraser in the award.
Her father was described as 'late' in the announcement of her sister's wedding to Colonel Alexander Woodford in 1820, and was probably the Charles Henry Fraser of Camden Place, Bath whose will was proved in 1814.
Under this will Charles Henry Fraser commented that his children by his first wife had been amply provided for by the fortune of their mother. This was the 'Mrs Fraser born in Westrik, Netherlands, shown in the 1825, 1828 and 1831 slave registers for Schepmoed.
The death of Jane Agnes Wilhelmina Rich was registered at Stoke Damerel, Devon 1842.
There was a public auction of Schepmoed following a fiat in 1843.
Christiana Sophia Hall was born in 1763 in Kingston, Jamaica. She was the daughter of Charles and Elizabeth Hall.
She married Manley Dixon, who later became Admiral Sir Manley Dixon, at some point before 1786.
They had a son, Manley Hall Dixon, born 1786 and baptised at Stoke Damerel.
Christiana died in 1810 at Deal, Kent, age 46.
Frances Dent was the contingent heir of Mary Butler, and inherited on Mary's death in 1823 after Mary's sister and direct heir had predeceased her.
The reason for Mary Butler choosing Frances Dent as the contingent legatee was not shown in the will and the connection has not yet been traced, although Frances Dent had been born in the West Indies. Interesting.
She was awarded part of the compensation for the enslaved people on the Grove estate in Nevis, after counter-claiming for the whole compensation as executrix of Mary Butler, in turn the legatee of Frances Butler.
In 1851 Frances Dent aged 81, mother, widow of Captain (RN), born West Indies was living at 17 James Terrace, Stoke Damerel, Devon with son Douglas Dent aged 55 born in Stoke, Devon and his family.
In 1841 the family, headed by Frances Dent, had been at Officer's Row Dockyards in Stoke Damerel. The death of a Frances Dent was registered at Plymouth 1856.
Admiral Sir Houston Stewart RN was awarded compensation for ownership of 143 enslaved persons on Roxburgh estate, Tobago. The estate had been settled on him by his father Sir Michael Shaw Stewart c. 1821.
His obituary in the New York Times read: "A telegraphic dispatch from London announces the death of Vice Admiral Sir Houston Stewart of the British Navy. He was a son of the late Sir M. S. Stewart, Baronet, and was born in 1791.
Entering the Navy he served at Flushing and St. Jean D’Acre, and was second in command in the Black Sea in 1855 and 1856. For his services at Sebastapol in 1856 he was made a Knight Commander of the Bath, and in 1865 a Grand Commander. He also received from the late Emperor Napoleon III the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour for his services in the Crimea.
Amongst other things he was Commander in Chief at Plymouth from October 1860 until November 1863.
His name is linked to the following Plymouth addresses:
8 Dockyard Terrace, Devonport
Port Admiralty House, Mount Wise
Anne Toby was the sister of Maria Park Fleming (née King) and Celia Scott. The three women with their husbands were awarded half the compensation for 107 enslaved people on the Sherwood Park estate in Tobago having made a monetary claim for nearly £4000 plus interest
According to the census of 1851, she was age 56, born in Dunkirk, Scotland and living in East Stonehouse, Devon with husband Isaac Toby age 57 and two female servants. She was at the same address in 1861 but she was widowed by 1871.
In 1851 Isaac Toby, captain and barrackmaster aged 57, born Kenton Devon was living at East Stonehouse Devon with his wife Anne aged 56 born in Dunkirk.
He died in 1869 at Durnford Street, East Stonehouse and his will was proven by Anne Toby, effects under £200.
The will of Anne Toby was proved at the Prinicpal Registry by Edward Gough McCallum of Stonehouse and John Oliver of Stoke. Effects less than £200.
John Martell was a shipwright, living in Port Royal, Jamaica, for the birth of his son in 1823 and living in Devonport, Devonshire by 1841. He was the owner of three enslaved in Port Royal.
Identified in the 1841 census at Ker Street, Devonport, Devonshire, aged 45, occupation 'Ship W' born 'Foreign parts' with his wife Maria, 45, born outside Devon. Also at the address were with John Martell, 15, born 'Foreign parts' and Thomas Martell, 9, born 'Foreign parts.'
His eldest son: John A. Martell, shipwright, aged 28 in the 1851 census, living at 42 Ker Street, Devonport, with his wife Jane, two sons and a daughter, born "S America, British Subject", and then in the 1861 census, ship carpenter, at 42 Ker Street with his wife Jane and a second daughter where his place of birth is given as Port Royal, Jamaica.
There is no sign of John Martell senior in the 1851 or 1861 census. John Allerdice Martell, shipwright, of Devon, husband of Jane, died in 1864 leaving effects under £100.
William Rose Wynter of East Stonehouse, Devon opened his will by rehearsing the will of his father. Thomas Wynter of St Catherine Jamaica.
It was dated 24/05/1788 under which Thomas Wynter instructed his estates of Hampshire and Prospect Penn be sold and the money aggregated in the hands of Richard Lee and Robert Cooper Lee with his personalty to be invested, and the income paid to William Rose Wynter for his life.
Originally the Lees purchased nearly £12000 consols, of which nearly £2000 had since been sold out to allow William Rose Wynter to equip his sons for the Army.
He also had sums which he meticulously recorded with the Mitchell firm in London. He left legacies to his sons Thomas Rose Wynter and William John Read Wynter who then predeceased him, having provided for his daughter Anna Maria Rose on her marriage, with the residuary estate going to his wife Margaret.

         
      
Joseph Graham was awarded the compensation for a single enslaved person in Trinidad.
It is not clear whether he was connected with the Joseph Graham of Trinidad who was co-owner of the Montrose estate in Trinidad in 1813 and owner 1819-1834.
In 1841 Joseph Graham aged 40 was living at West Emma Place, East Stonehouse Devon. Jane aged 30, six children (including Reginald) aged 10 months to 14, the middle three born F[oreign Parts] between c. 1828 and c. 1836, Sarah Milburn 'Ind.' aged 60 and 4 servants.
William Martin Graham, son of Joseph Graham of Port of Spain Trinidad died at Stonehouse Devon aged 17 Jan 1845. The family has not been traced further in Britain. Reginald Lockhart Graham, probably a son, appears to have moved to Australia; genealogical sources shed no light on the rest of his family.
Constantine Estwich Trent was awarded the compensation with John Trent and Sir George Henry Dashwood in trust of Harrison Walker Sober for the enslaved people on the Spring, Over Hill and Ashton Hall estates on Barbados.
He was baptised in Stilton, Dorset in 1794 and was the son of John and Elizabeth Trent. His father passed away when he was an infant.
In the census of 1841 he was living in a lodging house on Durnford Street, East Stonehouse, age 46, of independent means. The death of Constantine Trent was registered to East Stonehouse in 1845.

        A disclaimer for the map from https://www.ucl.ac.uk/lbs/maps/britain/: The map is a search tool and a general guide. More work is needed to produce data for statistical analysis.
      

        There are currently 4,840 addresses in the LBS database, linked to 5,106 individuals. We have located 3,267 of these addresses on the British map so far. Each marker on the map represents a specific address rather than an individual slave-owner; an address may be linked to several different people. For some people we have multiple addresses.
      

        Each address pinpoints a slave-owner or direct beneficiary in a particular place at a specific time. Often the evidence is fragmentary, we don't know when they moved to that address or when they left it but we have found a source – a census, a letter, a directory, a land tax record – for a portion of their stay.
      

        The map identifies addresses at differing levels of detail. For some people we have only a general place of residence, whether the name of a city, town or village. For others we are able to provide an outline of the building itself, particularly in the case of country houses. To see the level of detail represented in each marker, click on the node and select 'See location'.
      

        Many streets have been renumbered since the 19th century so for numbered houses we have identified the whole street rather than the building.
      
