
# Murder in the Cathedral review – Eliot staged in a sacred space

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:30:04+00:00**

Author: **Michael Billington**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2019/nov/05/ts-eliot-murder-in-the-cathedral-review)


        Southwark Cathedral, LondonJasper Britton is outstanding as Thomas Becket in Scena Mundi’s revival, but the church acoustics make the rest of the cast hard to hear
      
How do you stage TS Eliot’s famous 1935 verse-drama? Given that next year marks the 850th anniversary of Thomas Becket’s murder, Scena Mundi have decided to take the play on a tour of cathedrals, starting in Southwark. I see the point but sacred places often have shaky acoustics and, although Cecilia Dorland’s production looks impressive, too many of the words at the pre-press night performance I attended got lost. The women of Canterbury talk of “living and partly living”. I found myself hearing and partly hearing.
The best reason for seeing this production is to catch Jasper Britton’s outstanding Becket. As an experienced classical actor, he knows that you don’t have to bellow to be audible. Above all, he understands that the real drama of the piece lies within Becket’s soul. You can believe that this imposing, poker-backed figure was once an eagle among doves. Britton also greets the temptations offered by pleasure and power with an iron defiance. He weakens only when confronted by the fourth tempter, who offers the seductive possibility of martyrdom: visibly shaken, Britton makes you realise that his own forebodings are tinged with spiritual pride.
Britton alone makes the words work. When he talks of “the raw nobility whose manners matched their fingernails” he creates an instant picture in the mind and he elucidates Becket’s Christmas sermon with spellbinding clarity. After his death he also listens with studied interest to the self-justifying arguments of his killers. This ironic Shavian coda, clearly borrowed from Saint Joan, is one of Eliot’s many felicitous touches. I had forgotten how deftly his play mixes poetry and prose, rhymed couplets and free verse, the medieval and the modern. The dramatic structure owes much to the 14th- and 15th-century mystery plays, yet the piece still speaks to an age all too aware of the brutal arrogance of power. I would only urge the rest of the cast to follow Britton’s example and to realise that humankind cannot bear very much inaudibility.
• At Southwark Cathedral, London, on 12 and 13 November. Then touring to University Church of St Mary the Virgin, Oxford and Guildford Cathedral.
