
# Jenny Slate: 'For every bit of garbage Trump spews, I’ll write something beautiful'

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:56:49+00:00**

Author: **Ralph Jones**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/05/jenny-slate-interview-little-weirds-netflix-standup)


        The standup comedian is used to writing for public performance, but her remarkable book Little Weirds was written as private consolation
      
Jenny Slate is sitting in the middle of a storm. She’s safe inside, somewhere on a Massachusetts peninsula, and it’s one of those days, she says, when she could happily be drinking a Guinness while the rain lashes down. She is newly engaged, has a book coming out, and “life is lovely”.
When life was a little less lovely, the actor and standup comedian embarked on writing Little Weirds, her new collection of ... how to describe them exactly? The assorted pieces aren’t essays, nor short stories; perhaps they are best categorised as amused musings on the things that animate her.
The book’s catalyst was multi-pronged. She endured “pummelling heartbreak” at the end of a relationship. When Donald Trump became US president in 2016, she felt exhausted, disempowered and “astounding loneliness”. In the introduction she calls the book “a weird party for a woman who has returned from grief”. She started to write the pieces privately as a way of voicing how she felt when Trump’s rhetoric became increasingly disturbing to her. In the face of near-paralysing powerlessness, she was finding her voice. “What I say changes my experience,” she says. “It is important to start on that personal level.”
She has a process as a performer, she says, but writing this book involved having no expectations as to how it should be completed. A restless and distracted person, she tried to impose order on herself with early starts but ended up writing most of the book in bed at night, looking at the ocean. She would fall asleep at 4am and wake at 11.
