
# Thieves steal rare guitars during burglary in Plymouth

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:33:19+00:00**

Author: **Carl Eve**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/thieves-steal-rare-guitars-during-3494146)

Thieves who broke into a Stoke home made off with a haul of valuable items including a vintage Gibson guitar.
The thieves struck on Sunday October 27 at a residential property where they stole a rare wine cherry coloured 'ES 345 model' Gibson guitar and a natural wood coloured 'Epiphone Hound Dog'.
The burglary took place between 1am and 9am at the victim's home address while he slept.
Detectives believe the suspect or suspects entered the property via a back window.
The Gibson guitar bears the serial number 06104422. The guitar is believed to have been purchased around 1979 and has an approximate value of £4,000. It was held in a hardback leather case with a sticker of a 3D hummingbird and black and white 'Guitar Bar' sticker. The guitar itself is an ES 345 model and was made in 1977.
The thieves also stole a Dobro guitar which is of a natural wood colour with a silver disc in the middle. The Epiphone Hound Dog model is said to be worth £400 and was held in an original Dobro embossed leather case.
The crooks also made off with a silver Nokia digital camera worth around £100.
Anyone with information or anyone who comes across these guitars is asked to contact Det Con Ben Ferguson via  101@dc.police.uk or by calling 101 quoting crime reference CR/096984/19 or by calling Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111
