
# Man accused of being a 'pervert' after he points out issue with woman's leggings

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:18:47+00:00**

Author: **Luke Matthews, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/luke-matthews/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/man-accused-being-pervert-after-20794333?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

A man who thought he was being helpful by pointing out a potentially embarrassing problem with a woman's outfit instead found himself being labelled a 'f***ing pervert'.
After making his way to the gym, the man headed to the squat rack and began his workout.
In between sets and feeling a little worse for wear, he starred into the mirror in front and noticed a woman doing a similar session behind him.
As she reached the bottom of her squat, he said he 'immediately noticed that I can clearly see her a** through her pants'.
He got back to his routine after admitting he usually wants to be left alone and ignores everyone else in the gym, but later noticed again as at the bottom of her squat the yoga pants went so see through that he could 'pretty much see everything'.
 
Writing on Reddit , he said: "No idea why I cared (I'm married and completely uninterested) but I go into helpful mode and pull my headphones out and turn around quietly enough that only the two of us can hear and say this: 'Hey this is super creepy, but I’d feel creepier if I didn’t say something.
"'When you squat, your pants stretch and go completely see through on your a**'.
"Again I thought I was being helpful and that she’d want to know, but wholly s*** did she not see it that way."
"This girl practically screams :“You f***ing pervert! Stop staring at my a**!”
"Not needing to be told twice now that half the gym is staring at me, I go back to my workout and suffer the angry looks for another 20 minutes and go home."
 
Returning home with his tail between his legs, he says his wife agreed he was in the wrong for pointing it out and would be 'super embarrassed' if someone did that to her.
Asking if he was wrong for telling her, his handling of the situation divided opinion.
One said: "I would definitely want someone to tell me if my pants were see through when I moved.
"If she already knew and didn’t care she could have just said thanks and left it. You are not a pervert for noticing someone’s wearing see through clothing."
Others argued that the problem came from his choice of wording, rather than simply pointing it out.
"You're the a**hole for making it awkward and creepy by even mentioning her a**," replied another.
"You could have just said her pants were see-through and left it at that."
