
# Neil Lennon names the three Celtic stars he'd back to succeed Scott Brown as captain

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Michael Gannon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/michael-gannon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/neil-lennon-names-three-celtic-20792296)

Neil Lennon reckons he could throw the captain’s armband into Celtic’s dressing room and there would be a number of his main men diving to catch it.
But if the Hoops boss is forced to hand it out at Hampden this evening then he knows exactly where it’s going.
Scott Brown isn’t going to let go of his grip just yet but the skipper is a major injury doubt for tonight’s Betfred Cup last-four clash with Hibs.
Lennon is hoping to have his inspirational leader on the field but if not then he has no doubt in his mind Callum McGregor will step into the general’s boots.
The Parkhead manager doesn’t just see McGregor as a potential stand-in skipper today – he reckons the playmaker is a stick-on successor to Brown in the long-term.
Lennon said: “I would have no qualms handing Callum the armband. I see him as a natural successor to Browny in that regard, when the time comes.
“His performance levels over the years have been so consistent and he’s playing as well as ever at the minute.
“We have two or three captains in that dressing room.
“Chris Jullien could do it, Kris Ajer takes responsibility, James Forrest is a bit quieter and I don’t think he fancies it!
“But there’s a few who wouldn’t shy away from taking the armband.”
Lennon’s side have a hectic schedule with the League Cup semi quickly followed by Lazio away in the Europa League.
But there’s no chance of one of his leading men choosing to take a backward step.
That’s what Lennon loves about McGregor. The Scotland ace isn’t just a good player –he’s one of his best every single week.
The Hoops gaffer said: “Callum’s consistency is not something I take for granted.
“People just expect him to be a seven or eight out of 10 every week. That’s not an easy thing to do and I admire him for it. I admire his professionalism because he’s playing at a really high level while there has been interest in him.
“When you are playing well you want to keep the momentum going but I spoke to him on Tuesday, asking him if he wanted a wee break.
“He said, ‘No, I want to keep going.’ That was the answer I expected because when you are playing well, you want to stay in the groove.”
Celtic are also in their groove but the same can’t be said about Lennon’s former club Hibs.
The Easter Road men are limping on the road to Hampden having failed to win a match in 90 minutes since the opening day of the season.
 
Lennon won’t be fooled by the grim run though.
He said: “I don’t think they have been that bad.
“They could have won some of the games, they missed decent opportunities but could have lost a couple along the way as well.
“They are better than the league table shows. People ask if complacency will be the biggest factor. It’s not. Hibs are the biggest factor that will stop us going through. They have decent players there who I know.
“They dug out a result against Livingston, who we know are a decent team, and coming from two down might have given them a shot in the arm.
“But I can only talk about what we’re doing. We’ve been playing brilliantly and want to keep the momentum going.
“They don’t need motivating. A few of them have been here since the run started and it means a lot to them.”
Lennon has made Hampden his second home over the years and admits he still gets a buzz rocking up to Mount Florida.
He said: “I’m looking forward to Hampden. There’s great memories of May and the semi-final against Aberdeen. These games take care of themselves in terms of motivation.
“Wednesday (the 2-0 win over St Mirren) was a difficult one in terms of the intensity after Lazio and going to Aberdeen.
“It’s difficult reaching those levels again but in the semi-final the instincts will kick in.”
 
The prospect of a cup final is plenty to get the troops going but Lennon also points to the incredible run Celtic have put together in knock-out competitions. It’s a record of 29 wins and counting, with Lennon adding five to the 24 racked up by Brendan Rodgers, and he’s in no mood to allow the journey to come to an end this evening.
He said: “I’ve done alright but it’s just a small part of an amazing record really.
“The more you win, the more hungry you get for it and the more you want to protect it.
“Anything can happen in knockout football and we have seen that in the past. Ronny (Deila) saw it, we’ve all seen it, Martin O’Neill and Gordon Strachan too.
“It’s an amazing record that Brendan built the foundations for and thankfully I’m picking it up as we go along.
“You never know if anyone will do this again but you might not see it for a long time. It shows the consistency and the way they’ve played.
“Anything can happen on any given day. We’re aware of that, so we’ve left no stone unturned and we’ll put a strong team out.”
