
# TV star Nicki Chapman says Ayr is the perfect town to live

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:40:12+00:00**

Author: **Abi Smillie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/abi-smillie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/tv-star-nicki-chapman-says-20789729)

Ayr was added to many people’s must visit places as the town featured on a new property series last week.
The town was the focal point on BBC’s Escape to the Perfect Town where celebrity host Nicki Chapman hopes to find house buyers their dream pad.
The programme showcased not only stunning homes on Bellevue Lane, Racecourse View and in Doonfoot but showed off the beach, town centre, the Gaiety Theatre and the university.
Former Pop Idol judge Nicki seemed fond of the town describing it as “a popular seaside resort and the birthplace of the country’s best known poet, Robert Burns”.
She added: “It’s a town where the busy esplanade and beautiful beaches sit side by side with the Firth of Clyde.
“Whether you’re travelling from near or far in Ayr, a warm welcome is a par for the course.
“With a city [Glasgow] a train ride away and a short stroll from the sea, this certainly is an accessible yet atmospheric place to move to.”
Nicki’s buyers, from New Malden, Surrey, had £400,000 in their pocket and pinpointed Ayr as a potential perfect town to live.
They described the area as “cosmopolitan and buzzing”, adding that they loved the beach and were pleasantly surprised to find a theatre and university, both within walking distance of the town centre.
Many TV viewers shared their adoration for the town online.
Jennifer Robertson said: “A great advert for our town.”
Beryl Crighton echoed Jennifer’s thoughts and said: “It’s time we were taking pride in our town.”
Sylvia Lambe said: “I loved watching the programme and seeing Ayr made me proud to say I was born there.”
Colin Stevens added: “I would move there tomorrow if I got the chance- my mother was born in Ayr.”
The couple toured the area, soaked up the atmosphere and rich history and were keen on the location but not 100 percent on the properties they were shown.
Nicki said: “Whilst we didn’t manage to quite find them their perfect property, Ayr certainly delivered in being their perfect town.”
