
# Eight Goals, Two Red Cards In UCL Thriller

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:21:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/uefa-champions-league-wrap-05-november-2019/666829)


        Group H
        
        Chelsea 4-4 Ajax Amsterdam
      
Chelsea and nine-man Ajax Amsterdam played out a thrilling 4-4 draw at Stamford Bridge on Tuesday evening.
The visitors raced into an early lead through a Tammy Abraham own goal, but Chelsea levelled minutes later when Jorginho converted from the penalty spot.
Ajax then took control as goals from Quincy Promes Donny van de Beek and an own goal from Kepa put the visitors 3-1 up.
Cesar Azpilicueta pulled one back for Chelsea on 63 minutes, before Ajax were reduced to nine men after Daley Blind and Joel Veltman were sent off six minutes later.
Jorginho reduced the deficit once again with his second penalty, while Reece James leveled matters on 74 minutes with a fine strike.
Cesar Azpilicueta thought he had snatched the winner in the final 10 minutes, but celebrations were cut short after the Video Assistant Referee spotted a handball in the build-up.

        Valencia 4-1 Lille
      
Group H was blown wide open following the Chelsea clash as Valencia thrashed Lille 4-1 at the Mestalla on Tuesday evening.
It was the Ligue 1 side that went ahead after 25 minutes through Victor Osimhen, but Valencia hit back in the second through Dani Parejo, Adama Soumaoro (OG), Kondogbia and Ferran Torres.
Chelsea remain top of Group H followed by Ajax and Valencia in second third, with the top three all sitting on seven points.

        Group F
        
        Borussia Dortmund 3-2 Inter Milan
      
Borussia Dortmund rallied back from two goals down to defeat Inter Milan 3-2 at Signal-Iduna Park.
Inter raced into a two-goal lead thanks to strikes from Lautaro Martinez and Matias Vecino in the first half.
However a brace from Achraf Hakimi and a solitary strike from Julian Brandt sealed the come-from-behind victory for the Bundesliga outfit.

        Group E
        
        Napoli 1-1 Salzburg
      
Napoli dropped to second spot in Group E after drawing 1-1 with Red Bull Sazlburg at the Stadio San Paolo.
The highly-rated Erling Haland continued his fine form after netting his seventh goal of the tournament from the spot on 11 minutes, before Hirving Lozano restored parity just before the break.

        Group G
        
        Olympique Lyon 3-1 Benfica
      
Olympique Lyon moved up to second spot in Group G with an impressive 3-1 triumph over Benfica at Groupama Stadium.
Joachim Andersn, Memphis Depay and Bertrand Traore were on target for the Ligue 1 oufit, while Haris Seferovic netted a consolation for Benfica.
