
# How Arcade1Up found a sweet spot for scaled-down home game cabinets

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:28:06+00:00**

Author: **Matt Paprocki**

Original: [Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2019/11/how-arcade1up-found-a-sweet-spot-for-scaled-down-home-game-cabinets/)

Back in June 2017, Tastemakers CEO Scott Bachrach was at a meeting discussing a hole in the ever-expanding market for retro games. Specifically, there was no cheap and easy middle ground for a generation of classic arcade fans who wanted an authentic cabinet in their home.
"We looked and said there are 'under $100' solutions, [but they] don't really feel like a real arcade," Bachrach began in a recent phone interview with Ars. "There are $3,000 solutions that feel like a real arcade, but they're $3,000 and 300 pounds. How do we make something that is affordable to the masses but gives you the same play as a real arcade?"
From that meeting, the Arcade1Up line was born. Beginning in 2018, Tastemakers launched a series of 3/4-scale replica arcade cabinets, each with a handful of emulated games and a $300 to $400 price tag. The initial batch focused on Bachrach's personal wheelhouse: '70s and '80s classics from companies like Namco (Pac-Man, Galaga), Midway (Rampage, Defender), and Atari (Asteroids, Tempest). Soon though, the line expanded into the '90s with Street Fighter II and Mortal Kombat-themed machines, a move Bachrach called a "natural progression."
"We looked and said, 'What are the best-selling arcade games?'" Bachrach said. "'Who had them? When did they come out? What audiences did they go after?' And [we] made a strategic line on each one of them."
The early days of the Arcade1Up line included its share of quality-control challenges, as Bachrach is willing to acknowledge. Early control panel stickers were rapidly fading from basic use, and general questions about build quality and low-grade LCD screens popped up regularly online.
While certain Walmart locations eventually marked those first-generation units down to as low as $75, Bachrach claims this wasn't a sales issue or quality problem. "We can't dictate what a retailer will sell their product for. What I can tell you is a retailer only has so much space... if they sell 98% of their inventory and they want to get rid of the last 2% so they can make space for a new title, they look at what they can do to an immediate effect to get rid of whatever is there."
