
# Kyle Walker forced to play in goal for Man City in Champions League vs Atalanta

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:53:41+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/kyle-walker-forced-play-goal-20828774)

Manchester City ended up with Kyle Walker playing in goal in their Champions League clash with Atalanta at the San Siro.
First choice goalkeeper Ederson was substituted at half-time as a precaution ahead of Sunday's Premier League clash with Liverpool after picking up an injury in the first-half.
And things got worse for Pep Guardiola's side when his replacement, Claudio Bravo, was sent off for bringing down Atalanta striker Josip Ilicic with 10 minutes remainding.
The Chilean protested the decision and it was checked by VAR, but he was rightly shown a straight red card for preventing a clear goalscoring opportunity.
It led to Walker being introduced from the bench to put on the goalkeepers' shirt, tasked with stopping the resulting free-kick from a dangerous position as his first involvement.
The free-kick was fired low and straight at Walker, but he nervously kept the ball out despite spilling it then safely gathering.
There was a significant display before the substitution with some confusion, seemingly over a problem with the electronic board used to announce substititons.
Eventually, Walker was introduced in place of Riyad Mahrez, with City being held to a 1-1 draw in Italy at the time.
Raheem Sterling opened the scoring early on and their perfect record in the Champions League this season looked set to continue.
But Gabriel Jesus missed a penalty which would have put them 2-0 up before Mario Pasalic scored a leveller shortly after the break.
Bravo's chance to impress after Ederson's injury blow went badly wrong, but he could have another opportunity to make amends if the Brazilian is ruled out at the weekend.
His injury was believed to be minor and his withdrawal just a precaution.
They will still face a nervous wait to see if he is fit to feature against Liverpool at Anfield on Sunday, after a nervy end to Wednesday night's Champions League clash with 10-men.
Bravo's suspension for City's next Champions League game against Shakhtar Donetsk on November 26 could see veteran Scott Carson feature in the matchday squad.
