
# Earnings Preview: What To Expect From Roku On Wednesday

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Sarhan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamsarhan/2019/11/03/earnings-preview-what-to-expect-from-roku-on-wednesday/)

Roku, Inc. is scheduled to release earnings after Wednesday’s close. The stock recently hit a record high of $176.55/share and is trading near $146/share. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting:Earnings Preview:
Roku is expected to report a loss of ($0.28)/share on $243.00 million in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is a loss of ($0.20). The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings.
Company Profile & Various Businesses:
Here is a brief company profile:
Roku, Inc. operates a TV streaming platform. The company operates in two segments, Platform and Player. Its platform allows users to discover and access various movies and TV episodes, as well as live sports, music, news, and others. As of December 31, 2018, the company had 27.1 million active accounts. It also provides advertising products, including videos ads, brand sponsorships, and audience marketplace program; and manufactures, sells, and licenses TVs under the Roku TV name. In addition, the company offers streaming media players and accessories under the Roku brand name; and sells branded channel buttons on remote controls. It provides its products and services through retailers and distributors, as well as directly to customers through its Website in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Republic of Ireland, Mexico, and various Latin American countries. The company was founded in 2002 and is headquartered in Los Gatos, California.
Pay Attention To How The Stock Reacts To The News:
From where I sit, the most important trait I look for during earnings season is how the market and a specific company reacts to the news. Remember, always keep your losses small and never argue with the tape.
