
# Starting XI: Baroka v Sundowns

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:37:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/match-reports/absa-premiership-starting-xi-baroka-v-mamelodi-sundowns-06-november-2019/666840)


        Absa Premiership
      
Teams: Baroka v Mamelodi Sundowns
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Peter Mokaba Stadium
Mamelodi Sundowns resume Absa Premiership action with a clash away to struggling Baroka FC on Wednesday evening.

        
          View The PSL Table
        
      
Pitso Mosimane's were involved in Telkom Knockout action over the weekend, where they defeated Chippa United on penalties after it ended 2-2 in extra-time.
Back to league matters though, Sundowns will be pushing for a return to winning ways after suffering a 2-0 defeat to league leaders Kaizer Chiefs at Loftus Versfeld Stadium.
Sundowns currently occupy second spot in the standings, five points adrift of Chiefs who lock horns with the Chilli Boys in Port Elizabeth this evening.
At the other end of the scale, you will find a Baroka outfit struggling for form as they enter the clash on the back of six successive defeats in all competitions, the last of which was a 1-0 loss to AmaZulu.
Wedson Nyirenda's sit in 14th position as things stand, but a victory this evening could see them rise as high as 11th, provided other results go their way.

        Here's how they line up:
      
Baroka: 1. Chipezeze, 33. Farmer, 14. Mosele, 2. Kgoetyane, 18. Shozi, 23. Ngubane, 17. Kambala, 35. Nxumalo, 9. Mbulu, 20. Phiri Jnr, Patjie.
Subs: 30. Dlamini, 5. Makume, 26. Ntswane, 24. Madondo, 21. Mongae, 8. Mdantsane, 28 Nsimba.
Sundowns: 14. Onyango, 4. Langerman, 16. Ngcongca, 2. Madisha, 13. Mabunda, 8. Kekana, 5. Lebusa, 27. Morena, 7. Meza, 11. Vilakazi, 33. Maboe.
Subs: 1. Mweene, 15. Jali, Coetzee, 7. Lakay, 25. Ngoma, 9. Affonso, 21. Mkhusile.
