
# Lib Dems complain to ITV after Jo Swinson excluded from election debate

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:05:47+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/lib-dems-complain-itv-after-20799842)

The Lib Dems have complained to ITV about the exclusion of its leader Jo Swinson from an election debate between Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn ahead of the General Election on December 12.
The party urged ITV chief executive Dame Carolyn McCall not to help the leaders of the two largest parties "stitch up the debates" ahead of the vote.
Lib Dem president Baroness Brinton wrote to the broadcaster's chief on Saturday arguing for Ms Swinson's inclusion so an unequivocal Remain-backing voice is heard in the November 19 debate.
ITV, however, said it was already scheduling a separate live debate to include seven party leaders, as well as the head-to-head.
The Prime Minister is relentlessly pursuing Brexit , while the Labour leader wants to broker a new deal with Brussels before putting it back to the people with the option to Remain in another referendum.
 
Baroness Brinton wrote: "The voters of this country deserve to hear from a Remainer on the debate stage, not just from the two men who want to deliver Brexit.
"A debate between just them offers no real alternative and stifles the conversation.
"Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn are running scared of debating Jo Swinson and broadcasters should not help them stitch up the debates."
She stressed rules from the regulator Ofcom that due weight must be given to coverage of political parties during an election period, and also pressed the importance of representation of women during the debate
She wrote: "We have seen an exodus of women from politics in the run-up to this election. I want to do everything in my power to end this. I'm urging you to do the same."
She argued the Lib Dems deserve a place in the debate because they won more votes than the two main parties in the European Parliament election in May.
By that logic, Nigel Farage should also be taking part after his Brexit Party secured the largest share of the vote.
An ITV spokesman: "ITV intends to offer viewers comprehensive and fairly-balanced General Election coverage.
"This involves a wide range of programming, including a live debate programme in which seven party leaders are invited to take part, as well as a live debate between the Labour and Conservative leaders."
