
# Alan Mannus caught up in Irish anthem row as former St Johnstone keeper wins FAI Cup

Published at: **2019-11-04T07:39:11+00:00**

Author: **Mark McDougall, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcdougall/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/alan-mannus-caught-up-irish-20806414)

Former St Johnstone goalkeeper Alan Mannus has been caught up in a row over the Irish national anthem.
Mannus was lining out for Shamrock Rovers in the FAI Cup Final against Dundalk and helped his side end their long wait to lift the trophy.
It was the first time in 32 years they won Ireland's biggest cup competition but it was something that happened prior to it that has caused a row.
As the Irish national anthem played, players turned to face the Irish tricolor flying from the stadium as is custom in the country.
Of the 22 players lined up, 21 turned to face the flag but Mannus refused to do so and stood facing forward as the anthem played.
The decision not to face the flag angered many supporters who felt he was disrespecting the anthem while others insisted he had a right to do as he pleased.
One fan tweeted to say: "Alan Mannus not respecting our anthem. Doesn't have to sing but respect costs nothing."
Another added: "Alan Mannus turning away from the flag. He really doesn't help himself."
But others compared his decision to that of James McClean who often receives abuse for not wearing a poppy while playing football in England for the likes of Sunderland, Wigan and Stoke.
One said: "The same people slaughtering Alan Mannus are the same people who do be up in arms when James McClean gets hate for standing up for his beliefs."
Mannus is in his second spell at Shamrock Rovers having spent seven years at St Johnstone in between.
He started his career at Linfield before his move to Dublin and has earned nine caps for Northern Ireland.
The 37-year-old was part of the St Johnstone team that won the Scottish Cup in 2014 after beating Dundee United in the final.
