
# Performer known as Hollywood Superman found dead in Van Nuys

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:18:40+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ABC7 Los Angeles](https://abc7.com/hollywood-superman-found-dead-in-van-nuys/5677004/)

HOLLYWOOD, LOS ANGELES (KABC) -- The man known as Hollywood Superman was found dead in Van Nuys Saturday Eyewitness News has learned.Christopher Dennis portrayed Superman on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for over 25 years.His body was found inside a donation bin. No foul play is suspected.Dennis donned the iconic tights and cape to play the character he loved and to take pictures with tourists."It's my lifelong dream to be out here and helping people," Dennis had said. "The reason I started doing Superman is mostly because I love what the character stands for."Reginald Jackson, a fellow character who plays Spiderman said "He was the only person that looked exactly like Christopher Reeve...He could get a lot of photos and people loved him out here as Superman."Dennis was nearly beaten to death and robbed of his precious costume and cape in 2016. The outfit was set on fire, leaving the performer with no way to make money. He became homeless after the brutal assault.He made several appearances on Jimmy Kimmel Live and was featured in films. A docuseries was made about his life called, "The Kid: Adventures of Hollywood Superman.""He was all heart. Just a joyful kind of boyish mentality and he would do anything to help you out," said Rober Folk, Executive Producer of the film."Chris was a sweet guy who appeared on our show many times and was well-liked by everyone at Jimmy Kimmel Live. We will miss him," said host Jimmy Kimmel.The Superman Museum in Metropolis, Illinois, which features over 70,000 pieces of Superman memorabilia, posted a statement on their Facebook page:"We want to take a moment to extend our deepest condolences to the family, friends, and fans of Christopher Dennis better known as "Hollywood Superman"...Many years ago he married the love of his life here in Metropolis in front of the Superman statue...Chris had a love for Superman, and an uncanny resemblance to Christopher Reeve...Chris has had many struggles and ups and downs over the years. We hope that he is at peace now. And we pray for comfort to those who loved and cared about him." The coroner has not determined Dennis' cause of death.
