
# This week’s top stories: trick enables RCS for all, Google Pixel 4 and 4 XL reviewed, more

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:00:09+00:00**

Author: **Kyle Bradshaw**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/02/top-stories-rcs-trick-pixel-4-reviewed/)

In this week’s top stories: a simple trick can enable RCS on any Android phone, our reviews of the Google Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL arrive, Qualcomm announces the Snapdragon Wear 3300 for Wear OS, and more.
The world of messaging on Android has been set ablaze over the past week, as a group of redditors discovered a trick that can enable RCS, the tech underpinning of Google’s “Chat” initiative, on any Android phone, on any carrier. Using this Google Messages app trick, you can enable RCS on your phone in a matter of minutes, without root.
We’re not sure how long this RCS trick will be possible in Google Messages, however. Midway through the week, without warning, many devices (OnePlus phones especially) had their RCS connection fail entirely, but this issue quickly resolved itself.
The Google Pixel 4 and 4 XL officially hit store shelves and pre-orderers doorsteps last week, but with the various complaints early reviewers had for the phones, many remained skeptical. Our Ben Schoon and Damien Wilde each spent a great deal of time getting to know the Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL, respectively, and published their reviews this week.
Halloween was this week, and the latest version of Google Photos on Android got into the spirit by adding a fun little Easter Egg that appears when you search for the word “Halloween.”
In exciting Wear OS news, Qualcomm appears to be developing a wearable variant of their Snapdragon 429 processor from 2018, as the “Snapdragon Wear 3300.” The new SoC would bring the Snapdragon Wear hardware line five years forward, and gives us hope for Wear OS’s future.
Over a month ago, it was revealed that Fitbit was up for sale, and our Abner Li noted that such a sale created a fantastic opportunity for Google. Midway through the week, it was uncovered that Google’s parent company, Alphabet, had made an offer for Fitbit. Finally, on Friday, the deal was finalized, with Google purchasing Fitbit for $2.1 billion.
Our Stephen Hall and Abner Li spent a great deal of time diving into the ins and outs of the Fitbit deal and what it means for Wear OS on this week’s Alphabet Scoop.
