
# tours announced: Atmosphere, ‘All That,’ Sharon Van Etten/Wilco, Bosstones, more

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:31:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/tours-announced-atmosphere-all-that-sharon-van-ettenwilco-bosstones-more/)

The following new tours were announced. Check the Tour Dates category every day for more.

        ATMOSPHERE / THE LIONESS / NIKKI JEAN / DJ KEEZY
      
Alternative hip hop vets Atmosphere remain super busy, and they’ve just announced an extensive North American tour for early 2020 with The Lioness, Nikki Jean, and DJ Keezy. All dates (including NYC’s Webster Hall on 1/23) here.

        NOSTALGIA PERSONIFIED: ALL THAT EDITION with DANNY TAMBERELLI & LORI BETH DENBERG
      
All That nostalgia is in full swing. Nickelodeon rebooted the show earlier this year (with original cast member turned SNL cast member Kenan Thompson as an executive producer and a guest on the show), and now two other classic ’90s-era cast members, Lori Beth Denberg and Danny Tamberelli, have reunited to tour an All That edition of the Nostalgia Personified show, which was first created to indulge in nostalgia for Danny Tamberelli’s pre-All That classic Nickelodeon show The Adventures of Pete & Pete. The tour begins at Long Island’s Great South Bay Brewery on 11/12, hits Brooklyn’s Littlefield the next night (11/13), and then hits Newburgh, NY; Hamden, CT; Croydon, PA; Lancaster, PA; and more. After that tour ends, they’re doing a few more Pete & Pete editions, including one at Brooklyn Brewery on 12/12. All dates and tickets for all Nostalgia Personified shows here.

        SHARON VAN ETTEN / WILCO
      
Two days after Billy Corgan covered Sharon Van Etten, Sharon announced she’d be in his hometown to open for a different veteran Chicago band, Wilco. Maybe Billy will catch the show. We know Laura Jane Grace won’t.
She’s playing solo acoustic sets at nights three and four of Wilco’s four-night hometown run in December. The first two nights are with Robyn Hitchcock instead of Sharon. Sharon is also on a new Wilco covers album, playing Wilco’s Mexico destination festival, and crossing paths with Wilco at Shovels & Rope’s recently-announced High Water Festival. All Sharon dates here and all Wilco dates here.

        MIGHTY MIGHTY BOSSTONES HOMEDOWN THROWDOWN OPENERS
      
Openers have been announced for The Mighty Mighty Bosstones’ Hometown Throwdown holiday shows in Boston: Walker Raiders and Art Thieves on 12/27, Suicide Machines and Rebuilder on 12/28, and Big D & the Kids Table on 12/29. Tickets here.

        BIKINI KILL
      
Bikini Kill have expanded their reunion tour into 2020, and announced a slew of spring dates.

        OBITUARY
      
Florida death metal legends Obituary are playing classic albums in full on an East Coast tour this December.

        MY CHEMICAL ROMANCE
      
My Chemical Romance are slowly expanding their reunion tour schedule, which currently includes shows in LA, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan.

        HARRY AND THE POTTERS
      
Wizard rockers Harry and The Potters are holding the tenth annual edition of their Yule Ball holiday shows in three cities this December — Brooklyn, Boston, and Washington DC — and they’ll be joined by Kimya Dawson and Potter Puppet Pals.

        FRAIL BODY / FOR YOUR HEALTH
      
Two promising screamo bands, Frail Body and For Your Health, are touring together this December.

        LOCKN’ 2020
      
Dates have been revealed for Lockn’ 2020, which will celebrate Phil Lesh’s 80th birthday.
Browse our Tour Dates category for even more tours you may have missed.
