
# West Lothian teacher picks up top title at national awards

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:03:00+00:00**

Author: **John-Paul Clark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-paul-clark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/west-lothian-teacher-picks-up-20767595)

A computing science teacher has been named Secondary Teacher of the Year at the Scottish Women in Technology Awards.
Toni Scullion, from St Kentigern’s Academy in Blackburn, was given the prestigious accolade at the third annual awards with hundreds of guests in attendance from the education, government and private sectors.
It’s the second year in a row that Toni has been named Secondary Teacher of the Year and she became the first recipient of a SWiT award to receive an accolade two years running.

         
      
Judges felt that Toni was number one in Scotland for her work in inspiring girls to study or start a career in technology and went the extra mile to engage pupils in technology driving innovation for technology education in Scotland.
Toni won praise for her role within the school community for her work in encouraging more young girls to study computing.
She said: “Computing was my favourite subject at school, after which I continued to study my HNC, HND, and then went on to get my degree at university. Throughout each stage of my education I have always had strong role models, someone who always inspired me and pushed me to do more. Since graduating as a teacher I have always believed I could help young people achieve their potential and help guide, support and inspire them in some way.

         
      
“I feel moments of pride when I watch my pupils grow, achieve great things, and go on to the next stages of their journeys. That is what I love about teaching. Throughout my life I have met some special people who have helped inspire, guide and support me. Without them, I would not have ended up where I am today. I want to be that person for someone else.”
Toni also runs an award winning charity, dressCode, which aims to close the gender gap in computing science.
The charity was awarded a special commendation for the Diversity Initiative of the Year.

         
      
Toni was also named Gender Diversity Champion.
Depute leader of West Lothian Council, Councillor Kirsteen Sullivan said: “Toni is an inspirational teacher and a role model for young girls who aspire to learn about technology. She is a credit to St Kentigern’s Academy and thoroughly deserving of these awards.
“There is still a long way to go to ensure gender balance within the technology sector but Toni, and teachers like her, are making a real difference, changing the lives of many young girls, and the technology industries, for the better.”
Executive councillor for Education, David Dodds, added: “Toni’s passion for technology, teaching and encouraging diversity knows no boundaries and she is truly an inspirational role model for girls. Having spent time with Toni and some of her pupils I can see the positive impact she has on them and her enthusiasm and passion for teaching is very special.”

         
      
Andrew Sharkey, head teacher of St Kentigern’s Academy, said: “St Kentigern’s has an average of 12.8 per cent of students studying Computing at Higher Grade in S5, against a Scottish average of 5.1 per cent. We have also consistently outperformed the national average when it comes to the uptake of girls studying computing. Each year, on average, girls make up 7.7 per cent against a national trend of 1.5 per cent. This achievement is in no small part due to the fantastic work within our computing faculty.
“Toni is very modest and likes to shrug off the accolades but the school community are all very proud of Toni and her achievements.”
