
# Corbyn Takes on Trump, Trying to Get 'His Friend' Boris Johnson Elected

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:03:45+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911011077192807-corbyn-takes-on-trump-trying-to-get-his-friend-boris-johnson-elected/)


        As the UK's general election campaign begins, the country's relationship with the United States post-Brexit will become a major point of discussion among the candidates, with Johnson pivoting towards the US for a trade deal and Corbyn opposing such a move on the grounds that it would lower standards and sell off British services to US corporations.
      
During an interview with Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage on Britain’s LBC radio on Thursday, US President Donald Trump attacked Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, saying he would be bad for the UK, while praising Prime Minister Boris Johnson as a "fantastic man who was right for the times".
During the radio interview, Trump praised Johnson for attempting to implement his Brexit deal.
“Yes he has (spoken to me) and he also knows how difficult it is - he’s in a very difficult position. And I think he’s willing to do what no one else would do”, the US leader said.
“He’s a fantastic man and I think he’s the exact right guy for the times. And I know that you (Farage) and him will end up doing something that could be terrific. If you and he get together it’s, you know, an unstoppable force.”
However, Trump also criticised Johnson's current withdrawal agreement which the PM is seeking to implement. 
“We want to do trade with UK, and they want to do trade with us”, he said.
“To be honest with you, this deal, under certain aspects of the deal - you can’t do it, you can’t do it, you can’t trade. We can’t make a trade deal with the UK."
“Under certain ways we would be precluded, which would be ridiculous.”
​The comments by the US president come as the Labour Party officially launched its campaign for the 12 December 2019 general election, where Corbyn made a direct attack on the US president and the current British government's relationship with him.
“Trump is trying to interfere in UK election to get his friend Boris Johnson elected”, he said on Twitter.
