
# UPDATE | Jacob Zuma calls in sick for state capture inquiry on Monday

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeanette Chabalala**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/just-in-jacob-zuma-back-at-state-capture-inquiry-on-monday-20191105)

Former president Jacob Zuma will no longer appear before the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture on Monday. 
In a statement issued on Tuesday afternoon, the commission said: "The Commission has been informed by the legal representatives of the former President, Mr JG Zuma, that he is ill and unable to attend the hearings scheduled for 11-15 November 2019."  
"Dates for further hearings will be communicated in due course," the commission said.
Zuma first appeared before commission chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, in July.
He previously told the commission that Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) council chairperson, General Siphiwe Nyanda, and Ngoako Ramatlhodi were spies, News24 earlier reported.
Both men hit back, with Ramatlhodi challenging Zuma to a lie detector test and Nyanda saying he would consider cross-examining Zuma at the commission.
The commission has also announced that Lord Peter Hain would appear on November 18.
"Lord Hain has volunteered to give evidence before the commission," the statement read.
Hain, who was born in South Africa, is a former UK Labour party Cabinet minister.
He has written to the UK's finance minister, Sajid Javid, to follow the US' lead and impose a series of debilitating sanctions against the controversial Gupta family, according to News24.
Last month, the US Treasury announced that the three Gupta brothers – Ajay, Atul and Tony – as well family lieutenant Salim Essa, have been blocked from transacting, doing business or engaging in any financial dealings with any US entity or person.
