
# High-Dose Flu Shots Are A More Effective Option For The Elderly

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joshua Cohen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshuacohen/2019/11/01/for-the-elderly-high-dose-flu-shots-are-a-more-effective-option/)

Flu season is fast approaching. For many, it’s time to decide among the various influenza vaccine options.
Options include inactivated influenza vaccine, recombinant influenza vaccine, or live attenuated influenza vaccine. Different vaccines can be licensed for different age groups, and some vaccines are not recommended for certain age groups.
Conspicuously, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) doesn’t give a preferential recommendation for a particular flu vaccine.
Nevertheless, for the elderly certain flu vaccines are more effective than others.
Fluzone high-dose (HD) is an inactivated influenza vaccine, formulated to contain four times the antigen content of the standard dose (SD) vaccine. Fluzone is specifically approved for the use of persons 65 years of age and older.
Adults aged 65 years or older suffer the most severe health effects from influenza, accounting for approximately 90% of flu-related deaths and 50%–70% of hospitalizations. This is in part due to the ageing process as the body’s immune system weakens over time, allowing in some cases for influenza to transform into bacterial pneumonia.
It’s been demonstrated that a higher dose of antigen in the vaccine provides better protection against influenza for older people. A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine indicated that the high-dose vaccine was 24.2% more effective in preventing flu in adults 65 years of age and older relative to a standard-dose vaccine.
Several other head-to-head comparison studies of HD versus SD vaccines measured the economic impact on direct medical costs for cardio-respiratory hospitalizations in adults aged 65 years or older.
HD influenza vaccination is associated with net cost savings, due to fewer hospitalizations, and therefore lower direct medical costs, for cardio-respiratory disease as compared to SD influenza vaccination in the senior U.S. Veterans Health Administration (VA) population.
And, in another head-to-head comparison between the standard and high-dose versions HD vaccine was associated with fewer respiratory hospital admissions in senior enrollees of a large national managed care organization.
HD vaccines are not currently available in the VA hospital system. Moreover, several years ago, when they were available, uptake of HD vaccines was meager; only 4.4% of veterans who were vaccinated received the HD version.
This raises the question why HD vaccines are currently not available at the VA. This may have something to do with silo budgeting at the VA and the potential for myopia associated with it. The average cost of HD and SD vaccination is $23.48 and $12.21, respectively, per recipient. This is generally what matters most to the pharmacy budget holder. Importantly, the pharmacy budget is completely separate from the hospital budget, so there is no financial incentive for the VA pharmacy to take into account cost savings accruing in the hospital budget.
Alternatively, it may be that because ACIP doesn’t provide a preferential recommendation for any particular vaccine option it is implicitly saying any vaccine is acceptable for seniors 65 and older. Accordingly, the VA chooses the cheaper option in spite of weaker evidence.
By contrast, the Canadians’ National Advisory Committee on Immunization does provide a preferential recommendation. The Canadian Committee explicitly points to the significant difference in effectiveness, and accordingly grants HD a so-called Grade A recommendation.
It may be time for ACIP to revisit its policy of not granting a preferential recommendation to a vaccine with proven superior effectiveness for seniors.
