
# Reese Witherspoon kept entire Legally Blonde wardrobe and 77 pairs of Jimmy Choos

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:02:15+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/reese-witherspoon-kept-entire-legally-20793029)

Iconic Reese Witherspoon has confessed that Legally Blonde "changed her life forever" as she went on to keep the whole wardrobe, including 77 pairs of Jimmy Choo shoes.
It's one of her most iconic roles to date, admitting that she had the luxury of keeping the wardrobe as it was written in her contract.
Speaking on The Graham Norton Show on Friday, the actress shared: "I was in England making the Importance of Being Earnest when Legally Blonde came out in America. When I went home my life had changed forever."
Reese, 43, went on to unveil that she did in fact keep the 77 pairs of Jimmy Choos as well as the clothes, and said: "I had it written in my contract! I didn't touch them until the 15th anniversary and then had a lot of fun trying them on with my daughter."
The hit comedy film saw Reese portray an air-headed but actually very smart woman named Elle Woods, as she makes her way through Harvard School Of Law.
Witherspoon then went on to appear in a sequel in 2003, and a third film is in the works for 2020.
The superstar sat beside her This Morning co-star Jennifer Aniston to discuss their new Apple TV+ series.
Reese talked about her character Bradley Jackson, claiming: "My character has a lot of rage. I have meltdowns, which were really fun to do because as a rule I just don't do that in my personal life.
"I had meltdowns a lot, but mine were very close to the surface. I have three kids!"
And meanwhile Jennifer discussed her decision to get Instagram where she "broke" the Internet with a picture of herself and co-stars.
Ruling out a reunion, she said: "We just love to get together whenever we can. The girls are very good at keeping up with time together but, when it happens that we are all together, it's just so much fun."
