
# Zinedine Zidane responds to claim he wants Gareth Bale gone amid Raheem Sterling link

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:42:45+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/zinedine-zidane-responds-claim-wants-20822363)

Zinedine Zidane has told Gareth Bale that he wants him to stay at Real Madrid in January - with the Spanish giants linked with a swap deal with Manchester City for Raheem Sterling.
Real are preparing a £70million plus Bale deal to try and lure Sterling to the Bernabeu, according to reports.
The Welshman was also close to a summer move to Chinese Super League club Jiangsu Suning but the deal was pulled at the eleventh hour - with league rivals Shanghai Shenhua now interested.
But Real manager Zidane has insisted that he wants the winger to remain in the Spanish despite regular rumours of a bust-up between the duo.
"Everybody is saying I don't want Bale here and I want him to leave in January. That's nonsense," Zidane said.
"People can talk about me, about what I do, but nobody can put fake words on my mouth.
"Of course, we cannot have the same bond with everybody but I've never had any problem with Gareth, even after what happened during last summer when supposedly he was leaving.
"This is the situation: he's here, and I'm happy because the player is very good."
"So yes, I want Gareth to stay here with us until the end of the season. That's very clear."
Bale hasn't played since scoring in Wales' Euro 2020 qualifier with Croatia on October 13 - with his last outing for Real coming on October 5.
The 30-year-old has been struggling with a calf injury but was called up to Ryan Giggs' squad for Wales clashes with Azerbaijan and Hungary.
And Zidane has stayed cool on Bale's inclusion in the squad. The Frenchman said: "If his national team, his country, called him up it is their right. It is a FIFA international break and there is nothing we can do about it.
"The player only wants to recover. There are not doubts about it.
"He's the one suffering the most. We will see how the week goes and what's going to happen with his national team, to know if he's ready or not."
