
# This Awesome Logitech Gaming Mouse Is Over Half Off

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:51:13+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/logitech-gaming-mouse-sale-half-off.html)

When you play games you want excellent tools, and right now the awesome Logitech G502 HERO gaming mouse is on sale at Best Buy.
You can pick up this great peripheral for $37.99 down from its original price of $80. That's over half off the normal cost. So not only are you saving big, but you're doing so on a great piece of equipment.
The G502 HERO is a wired optical mouse, so there's no wireless freedom like you may get with some options. That being said, if you're concerned about any latency or battery issues, you won't have that here.
Advertisement
Since it's wired, it's always plugged in, and there's no reason to worry about any problems with charging or interference.
The Logitech G502 HERO 16,000 DPI sensor. Which means it can be hyper adjusted for super smooth movements. It also boasts really good accuracy. This is important for games that require fast reactions.
The mouse also comes with 11 programmable buttons. You can customize each one of these so you can tailor their function to your preference. There's adjustable weights inside too.
Advertisement
This gives it even more customization options. If you prefer a heavier mouse feel for certain games, you can leave all the weights in. If you need the mouse to be lighter, like say, for FPS games, you can remove some weights to get the perfect feel for faster movement.
And of course, the G502 HERO has RGB lighting as well. It uses what Logitech calls RGB Lightsync, which is said to be fully customizable. It should also sync up with some of your games to match the colors for more immersive gameplay.
This is also a mouse that is built to last as it's rated for over 50 million clicks. In short, you won't have to worry about upgrading for a while.
Advertisement

        Logitech G502 HERO Gaming Mouse - Best Buy - $37.99
      
