
# Andela Launches New Centre in Egypt That is Run Remotely

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:37:49+00:00**

Author: **Kiruti Itimu**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/06/andela-launches-in-egypt/)

Andela has formally launched in Egypt in a launch ceremony yesterday with a remote centre located in Cairo.
This is Andela’s 6th station in the continent, after Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria, Rwanda and Uganda. Andela’s headquarters is in the United States.
Senior developers will work remotely from Cairo allowing them to gain experience while actively building their local tech ecosystems.
Andela launched a senior developer recruitment in Cairo last year in July. During this period, they have hired more than 80 senior developers and are planning to hire at least 200 senior developers over the next year.
Their launch is in partnership with the Information Technology Industry Development Agency (ITIDA) which is the agency that is spearheading the development of ICT in Egypt.
They signed an agreement with Andela to support the company in identifying and training a minimum of 200 top software engineers in Egypt. This agreement was signed b ITIDA CEO Hala El Gohary and Egypt Country Director at Andela, Rama El Safty.
This move is parallel with the Egypt’s Ministry of Communications and Information Technology target of increasing the size of Egyptian ICT export that reached $3.67 billion last year.
Andela’s move to open a Cairo remote office comes after they announced a radical shift in their business model. They decided to let go over 400 junior developers and instead focus on hiring senior developers so that they can “better align with what the market needs.” They are hiring senior developers in Cairo and you can see they are following up with their plans.
 
