
# Hamilton triathlete Grant Sheldon hasn't given up on Tokyo dream

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andy McGilvray, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andy-mcgilvray/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/hamilton-triathlete-grant-sheldon-hasnt-20764540)

Hamilton triathlete Grant Sheldon hasn’t given up on his Tokyo 2020 dream despite a season disrupted by injuries.
The 25-year-old’s season came to an unexpected halt after a freak treadmill accident left him nursing a broken wrist in early October; the latest in a lengthy list of injuries that have left Sheldon frustrated this year.
However, nobody has jumped ahead of him in the queue, and selections have still to be made for the Team GB triathlon team at Tokyo 2020, so Sheldon is in positive mood.
While Sheldon knows he will need to be on peak form next year, he stands a chance.
“Tokyo is still a possibility,” said Sheldon. “In the men’s triathlon no-one has really staked a claim for selection yet, so everything is still up for grabs, the door has definitely not been shut.
“It’s obviously going to be hard, it’s going to rely on me racing really well in February and March to get into the races in April and May.
“The automatic qualifying races have gone and nobody made it, so it’s just about staking a claim for selection the best I can.”
In August Grant, a sportscotland institute of sport supported athlete, secured a third-placed finish at the Karlovy Vary ITU Triathlon World Cup in the Czech Republic, and took another third at the Weihai World Triathlon Cup in China in September, suggesting that the athlete was finding form and fitness before his latest injury.
“It has been a very up and down year with lots of little, unfortunate injuries,” he said.
“In January I fell off my bike and cracked my ribs, then in my first race back I stood on something and sliced my foot open – I had to get stitches on the sole of my foot after that.
“ After that I was just trying to get fit after losing a bit of time. I was building back up towards the end of the season and had a good couple of races, but then I broke my wrist, which has cut the season short.”
Grant made his second Commonwealth Games appearance at the 2018 Gold Coast Games where he finished 17th in the individual event and seventh in the mixed team relay. He also represented Team Scotland at the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games, finishing 14th in the individual event and seventh in the mixed team relay.
He has been supported by the sportscotland institute of sport for “eight or nine years”, which Grant says has “been hugely helpful, particularly in the year I’ve just had, which has been so stop-start with injuries”.
