
# Sarawak Assembly passes Strata (Subsidiary Titles) Bill 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:21:27+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/sarawak-assembly-passes-strata-subsidiary-titles-bill-2019)

KUCHING (Nov 4): The Strata (Subsidiary Titles) Bill 2019 — which among others, would allow residents to manage, maintain and regulate the conduct of each strata owner through a management corporation — was passed by the Sarawak State Legislative Assembly today.
Deputy Chief Minister Datuk Amar Awang Tengah Ali Hasan said due to rapid changes in land development including strata, the current Strata Titles Ordinance 1995 (Chapter 18) was inadequate to cater for the current and future demands of the industry.
“In order to address this, the Government has decided that the law governing strata development be improved. Hence, a new bill which is the Strata (Subsidiary Titles) Bill, 2019 is introduced to replace the Strata Titles Ordinance 1995 (Chapter 18),” he said while tabling the bill for the second reading, before the Bill was unanimously passed, here, today.
Awang Tengah noted that as at last Thursday, there were 280 strata projects comprising 18,323 strata titles, with Kuching Division contributing the highest number of strata units totaling 12,443 strata titles.
Out of the 280 strata projects, he said 76.7% or 215 projects have been completed and issued with 11,962 strata titles, while the remaining 23.3% or 65 projects were still in various stages of development.
Among the objectives of the Strata (Subsidiary Titles) Bill 2019 are to provide protection for all stakeholders in strata development, to formulate more dynamic and relevant provisions in tandem with the current and expected future of real estate and building industry trends and to improve and streamline the processes for speedy issuance of parent and subsidiary titles.
“The new ordinance will enable enhancement among others, the issuance of subsidiary titles, establishment of management corporations and the overall improvement of protections for all stakeholders involved in strata title development,” he said.
Also passed today was the Strata Management Bill 2019, which was aimed to regulating the management and maintenance of strata building in which among others it would make it mandatory for owners to pay monthly maintenance charges for routine maintenance of the common facilities in and around the building, and not less than 10% of such monthly charges shall be put aside as sinking fund for major repairs/replacement and repainting works.
State Local Government and Housing Minister Datuk Seri Dr Sim Kui Hian said the mandatory charges would also apply to each of the unsold unit which would be borne by the developer.
He said the proposed Bill also made it mandatory for strata development to form a management body responsible for the management and maintenance of the subdivided building or land.
“There will be a management committee, members to be elected amongst the unit owners at a general meeting. Meeting and voting procedures are provided for under the Schedules. More importantly, the management body is also responsible for the maintenance and sinking fund accounts, and such accounts need to be audited annually, in order to ensure that the monies collected are properly managed,” he said.
The State Assembly sitting resumes tomorrow. — Bernama
