
# Casablanca to Starship Troopers: the movie breakups that hit our writers hardest

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:47+00:00**

Author: **Charles Bramesco, André Wheeler, Benjamin Lee, Adrian Horton, Pamela Hutchinson, Andrew Pulver, Jordan Hoffman, Guy Lodge, Peter Bradshaw, Gretchen Smail, Catherine Shoard**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/06/casablanca-starship-troopers-movie-breakups)


        With the release of Noah Baumbach’s crushing divorce saga Marriage Story, Guardian writers have reminisced over their most memorable big screen breakups
      
I watched An Education right as I was entering college while also developing an interest in cinema, and I found it to be such a beautiful, disturbing and devastating film that spoke to a lot of what I was feeling at the time. It tells the story of 16-year-old Jenny being dazzled by the 30-something David, who deftly tricks Jenny into believing he’s a single and honorable man through increasingly lavish gifts. The director Lone Scherfig and the writer Nick Hornby delicately explore many of the issues in play, from David’s predatory actions, to issues of class, to the changing roles and expectations of women during the 1960s.
An Education is well done because it’s a breakup film on several levels: between Jenny and her family, Jenny and David, and then Jenny and the person she believes she wants to be. College is difficult and frustrating, and coming from suburbia, Jenny sees her future as uncertain and dark. David, with his trips to Paris and sophisticated friends, embodies an easy out for Jenny, so she abandons all other relationships and drops out of school for him. As a child, she doesn’t notice until it’s almost too late that David is an emotionally stunted manchild, a negligent father, and a con artist to boot. It’s such a heartbreaking discovery to watch, and was all the more painful to see as a teen still trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my life.
Many tears are shed, but ultimately I love An Education because it’s an uplifting film: Jenny redoes her last year, goes to Oxford and ultimately is able to look back on her time with that creepy man as educational rather than traumatizing. GS
