
# Cheetahs hooker Dweba set for milestone in PRO14

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:18:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Featured/SportTV/cheetahs-hooker-dweba-set-for-milestone-in-pro14-20191101)

Cape Town - The Cheetahs have named their side for Saturday's PRO14 clash against Wales' Scarlets in Llanelli. 
The action kicks off at 17:00 (SA time). 
The major news out of the Cheetahs camp is that hooker Joseph Dweba will be earning his 50th cap for the franchise.  
"It's quite exciting and it’s quite emotional as well," he said.
"I am thankful for the opportunity and I am thankful for everything that has been happening as well. 
"It has been a long two and a half years of fighting to get to where I am now. Each and every weekend I make sure that I enjoy the game that I love. I make sure that the team comes first. Everything I do, I do for the team.
"I want the team to go forward. If the team goes forward I go forward and it helps me to grow as a player.  
"I feel like we are stronger as a team from where we started in the PRO14 as to where we are now.  As you could see last weekend we are not a pushover anymore."
Elsewhere, Boan Venter will start at loosehead prop, replacing Ox Nche who returned to South Africa to join the Sharks.
JP du Preez and Sias Koen move into the starting line-up with Walt Steenkamp and Gerhard Olivier providing cover on the bench while Tian Meyer will be leading the team and starting at scrumhalf.
Benhard Janse van Rensburg moves to outside centre and Louis Fouche will be starting at inside-centre.
George Whitehead, meanwhile, will be making his PRO14 debut when he sets foot to field. 

        Cheetahs team:
      
15 Rhyno Smith, 14 William Small-Smith, 13 Benhard Janse van Rensburg, 12 Louis Fouche, 11 Clayton Blommetjies, 10 Tian Schoeman, 9 Tian Meyer (captain), 8 Jasper Wiese, 7 Junior Pokomela, 6 Sias Koen, 5 JP du Preez, 4 Sintu Manjezi, 3 Aranos Coetzee, 2 Joseph Dweba, 1 Boan Venter
Substitutes: 16 Wilmar Arnoldi, 17 Luan de Bruin, 18 Erich de Jager, 19 Walt Steenkamp, 20 Gerhard Olivier, 21 Ruan Pienaar, 22 George Whitehead, 23 Anthony Volmink

        
          - Cheetahs media
        
      
