
# 'Sat in the garden' - Dean Smith shares this brilliant Aston Villa story and fans will love it

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:20:38+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-news-john-mcginn-17214520)

Dean Smith just can’t get away from the chant about John McGinn – even at home!
Aston Villa’s all-action midfielder continues to be toast of the terraces at Villa Park and has his own song.
“We’ve got McGinn,” sing the Villa fans. “Super John McGinn, I just don’t think you understand, he’s Dean Smith’s man, better than Zidane - we’ve got super John McGinn!”
Smith will be used to hearing those lyrics on a matchday by now, but it also follows him home.
Keep up to date with the latest Aston Villa news, features and exclusives from Birmingham Live via our free WhatsApp service.                        
Text NEWS to 07557205119 and then add the number to your phone contacts book as BirminghamLive to receive daily updates and breaking news from our Villa reporter Ashley Preece.
Your phone number won't be shared with any other members of the group. Click here for more information on the service.
 
The Villa boss told Sky Sports: "I was sat in the garden the other week having a cup of coffee and I could even hear my neighbour's kid singing the McGinn song in the bathroom.”
McGinn, a bargain buy from Scottish Premiership side Hibernian last summer, has taken to step up to the Premier League in his stride.
He’s already bagged three league goals this season, set up two more and generally proved a thorn in the side of every opposition player who has been near him.
“I'm asking him to get in the opposition box and score, but also create," added Smith. "That was the thing I felt we could help him with, because of his intelligence tactically."
 
The 25-year-old has also scored four times for Scotland this term, including a first ever senior hat-trick when playing against San Marino last month.
"It's probably been a little bit about sometimes reining him in," said Smith.
"But we certainly don't want to stop him doing what he's really good at, which is arriving in the opposition box."
