
# ISL 2019-20 | Not happy with one point, laments FC Goa boss Sergio Lobera

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:14:36+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/isl-2019-20-not-happy-with-one-point-laments-fc-goa-boss-sergio-lobera?utm_medium=rss)


        Despite FC Goa scoring a late equalizer through Manvir Singh against hosts NorthEast United FC, the Gaurs coach Sergio Lobera is not amused and has stated that he is not happy with one point. The Goan coach has also expressed his dissatisfaction for ruining several chances at the goal.
      
FC Goa once again walked away with a point by scoring an injury-time goal against hosts NorthEast United in Guwahati. The visitors first scored through Hugo Boumous and was leading 1-0 at halftime. However, an eventful second-half saw NorthEast rallying with two goals from Asamoah Gyan and Redeem Tlang, but it was the last-minute header of Manvir Singh shared the spoils for both teams.
Despite dominating the game against NorthEast United most the time, the Gaurs could not convert several chances at the goal and Goa boss Lobera is not happy with the one point secured through the last-minute goal by Manvir Singh.
“I am not happy with one point because I think in the first five minutes, it is possible to score two or three goals. The first 30 minutes maybe is the best 30 minutes of the season for my team and when you create a lot of chances, it’s necessary to score because sometimes, it’s possible that if we don’t score our chances, the opponent team (scores theirs),” said Sergio Lobera at the post-match conference, ISL website reported.
The Spaniard rued the missed chances in the beginning. However, he believes it is a good thing to score in the injury time. Goa had also scored an injury-time penalty against Bengaluru. 
“I think we have had a lot of chances to win the match. And in the final moments, it’s possible to win the match. It’s the second match in which we scored in injury time and this is a good thing because my team believes till the end. And I think it’s good to have a positive attitude, but I am not happy with one point. Because if we managed the match well, today it was possible to get three points,” said Lobera.
The Spanish coach also refused in changing his philosophy to combat the physical approach of the opposition teams. “I think the opponent teams suffer a lot when we have the ball. In the first 30 minutes, NorthEast is a very strong team, but they suffered a lot of in the 30 minutes. It was possible to score three goals and the match would have been done. I think it’s not necessary to change our style because it’s important for us and we are strong when we play in this way,” Lobera added.
