
# Hearts will thank Craig Levein when his legacy becomes clear - Gordon Waddell

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Waddell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gordon-waddell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/hearts-thank-craig-levein-legacy-20795881)

Hard as it may be to believe, the next Hearts manager will end up thanking Craig Levein for his legacy.
That he deserved to go in the end is indisputable.
No manager can survive six months at home without a win at a club the size of Hearts with such a demanding support.
A year ago today, they were top of the league. Since then, despite reaching a Scottish Cup Final and a League Cup semi-final, they’ve played 50 matches and won only 16 – eight of them in knockout games.
 
Some of their performances have been eye-bleedingly bad. A punishment exercise for punters.
Losing five to Livingston. A 0-0 draw at home to Ross County that they deserved to lose by the length of the A9.
The coup de grace in midweek that saw them fail to score against a St Johnstone side that haven’t been able to keep weans out a close all season.
But have a look at the line-up in the graphic. That’s comfortably a top-six team, at least.
Levein recruited all of these players yet never had the luxury of playing them together.
And behind the scenes his complete restructuring and close management of the club’s academy set-up has the club set up for years to come.
The next guy, if he’s lucky enough to get all these ducks in a row, could benefit instantly without working miracles.
Put that team, or close to it, on the park for half-a-dozen games in a row and it’s not inconceivable Hearts could rattle up the points to surge up the table.
The narrative around Levein has been venomous for months.
With every goal conceded at Tynecastle, you’d get some bam, temples throbbing, screaming at him to get to f***, a live enactment of the worst excesses of social media.
And in he’d walk after the game, looking perplexed, sometimes beleaguered, occasionally resigned, but ultimately always believing he just couldn’t catch a break.
And he was right.
There’s not a single side in the country, outside of the biggest two, who could deal with the loss of players he has and survive it.
John Souttar, Craig Halkett, Peter Haring, Stevie Naismith, Conor Washington and Jamie Walker would walk into every other club, together, and start.
Ben Garuccio, Glenn Whelan, Loic Damour and Jake Mulraney have also spent time on the sidelines this term.
Levein was left with Hearts’ reserves and what right did fans have to expect them to beat the likes of St Johnstone, Hamilton Accies and Ross County?
Ultimately, fans don’t want to hear it and there’s only so much a chief executive or chairwoman can listen to without realising they’re beyond the point of no return – the Hearts board and Ann Budge were smart enough to realise it was time to act.
The big question for them is where they go next.
And maybe more significantly how they get there.
As a club, off the field, they’ve done so much right in the post-apocalyptic days since Vladimir Romanov.
The creation of the Foundation of Hearts with some smart and qualified people. The decision not only to stay at Tynecastle but to invest in and enhance it, the goodwill of their matriarch to facilitate all of it.
The communication and brilliance of their Big Hearts charity arm. It’s all quality.
Except the bit that has to be.
Now it’s time to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
Back in 2014 when Budge and Levein emptied out Gary Locke and unveiled Robbie Neilson, they envisaged a succession plan to rear the next manager internally and ensure the transition was seamless.
It was idealistic, to be fair – that Scottish football’s bloodlust would allow that to happen – but the day they sacked Jack Ross from the incumbent’s role, the whole concept fell apart.
Success allows succession. Failure doesn’t. So this is a defining moment for Budge.
She may have sorted out the business but she hasn’t made a football decision in five years without Levein holding her hand and walking her through it. Look at the make-up of their board.
It’s impressive – but it’s full of CVs in corporate finance, tax management, law. Without Levein’s towering presence, it has zero experience with football.
Right now, they need to make a smart, calculating football decision – are they capable of making it? They can’t afford the buyout for a Michael O’Neill or even to bring back Neilson, who has just signed a fat new contract for Dundee United, a club speculating to accumulate like there’s no tomorrow.
They could go for under-rated Inverness boss John Robertson again. But could people stomach bringing in another legend to maybe endure what Levein has had to tolerate?
Budge wanted Steven Pressley in the last time but Levein kiboshed it and the fan reaction would have, even if he hadn’t.
So would Elvis’ current plight at Carlisle.
They could go left-field – but how did that work out for them last time when they brought the, ahem, unconventional Ian Cathro into our horribly ultra-conventional little pond?
They could try to persuade Stephen Robinson to give up his self-build at Motherwell and the near-certainty of a top-six finish for a bigger club, challenge and salary – but would he risk it?
So where they go from here will determine a lot.
It will determine Budge’s grasp of Scottish football, of taking the temperature of her fans, of recruiting, of the skills matrix of her board – and ultimately determine her legacy for the club.
By this morning she’ll have had 100 different names in her inbox, each trying to convince her that they’re the man for the job.
If she’s seen to be asking Levein to help her choose his successor, instead of just paying his deal up one month at a time, though?
Personally, this column has no doubts he’s capable of doing it dispassionately but few others will believe it.
And that’s all that should matter – she’d never get over it.
