
# Three-year-old boy stabbed in Winnipeg has died

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeremiah Rodriguez, CTVNews.ca Writer**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/three-year-old-boy-stabbed-in-winnipeg-has-died-1.4667668)

TORONTO -- A Winnipeg boy who was stabbed multiple times has died after being taken off life support by his family, CTV News has confirmed.
Three-year-old Hunter Haze Smith-Straight died shortly after 4 p.m. local time, according to a family spokesperson.
The boy had been in his bed when he was allegedly stabbed in the neck on Wednesday morning.
Daniel Jensen, 33, has been charged with several offences including attempted murder. None of the charges have been proven in court. Police said he had a previous relationship with the boy's mother.
Police said those charges could change. Winnipeg police const. Jay Murray had said that “certainly if an individual passes away as a result of an assault we can upgrade charges.”
On Friday morning, the family told CTV News Winnipeg an MRI scan revealed that Hunter, who was at the city’s Health Sciences Centre, had suffered severe brain damage.
Darryl Contois, a friend of the family, said Hunter was his mother’s only child, adding that his mother had “been through hell and back.”
That same day, a vigil was held at the hospital during the afternoon. There, Hunter’s family grieved alongside members of the community who also offered personal condolences and prayers.
During the vigil, Hunter was described as an inquisitive child with big dreams. Contois described how, “out of the blue, (Hunter) would ask you anything. But he always had a smile and he loved toy guns.”

        
          This is a breaking news story. More to come...
        
      
