
# Brendan Rodgers reveals Arsenal bid for Kieran Tierney on his first week as Celtic boss

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Jackson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/keith-jackson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-transfer-news/brendan-rodgers-reveals-arsenal-bid-20826405)

It was the very first memo on his Celtic to do list less than one week into the job: Persuade Kieran Tierney not to move to Arsenal.
That Brendan Rodgers managed to pull it off - turning down a £10million fee in the process - was a sign of the successes to come.
But that the two of them are set for a reunion at the King Power Stadium this Saturday, a reminder that nothing lasts for ever.
So when Rodgers made his way south of the border amid a furious backlash in February last year it was only ever going to be a matter of time before Tierney followed his manager into the big league.
And this weekend master and apprentice are about to come together again in the most compelling and perhaps even unexpected of circumstances, right in the very thick of the fight for a place in the top four of the English game.
Tierney ought to still be finding his feet at such a lofty level, having had his big Arsenal breakthrough delayed by injury. And yet the 22-year-old has made such a huge impact in such a short of time at the Emirates that already he is being hailed as a favourite of the fans and perhaps even a potential future captain.
Rodgers?
He’s hit the Premier League like a force of nature. An immaculately presented whirlwind which has carried Leicester City into third place - incredibly just two points behind Pep Gaurdiola and his all conquering Manchester City - and six ahead of Tierney and Arsenal.
So it’s with a sense of some irony then that Rodgers recalls those first few days in Glasgow, when it was his business to tell a teenage Tierney to stay put.
He smiles and says: “The very first week I was there I was told that there was interest from Arsenal for around about 10 million quid.
“Peter Lawwell was very clear that this was an opportunity that was there for Kieran. But obviously we didn’t want the player to go and it was my job to try to convince him to stay.
“You have to be transparent with players in a situation like that so I just said, ‘Listen, we could have a great cycle here. I really want to develop you and make you a better player’.
“I think very quickly he enjoyed the training, he enjoyed the work and he enjoyed the culture we were trying to create. Thankfully he decided he was going to commit to another deal which was absolutely great news for us all.
“He was a big talent and we wanted to hang on to our best talents.
“So he stayed and he gave everything to Celtic, increased his market value and then ended up moving there for the price that he did.”
Three years and £25m later Tierney is now on the verge of becoming a mainstay in North London when, had he made the move at the first time of asking, he might still be farmed on loan somewhere else awaiting his big chance with the first team.
Not that, from the first time he clapped eyes on him, Rodgers had any doubt this young man was destined for bigger and better things.
Which is why the two will take some time out ahead of Saturday’s live TV showdown to catch up on old times and discuss their new lives in the here and the now.
Rodgers went on: “You could see right away in that first period that he had that will and desire to get to the very top. He had come through a number of injuries as a younger player but he developed his body over the course of the time I was there. He became a really strong, aggressive, powerful player. He was very robust too given the number of games he played.
“He was unfortunate with a couple of injuries but there was absolutely no doubt about his mentality. He wanted to succeed so it’s absolutely great to see him move to that level.
“On a personal level I’m really looking forward to seeing him again. I’ve exchanged messages with him since he moved to Arsenal and I’ve been looking out for him to see if he’s playing. He’s obviously been unfortunate that he was injured when he signed and there is always that settling in period required.
“So there will always be that communication and I will watch him from afar in the games as I do with all the rest of the players I worked with.
“But, yes, I’m looking forward to seeing him as he has a great smile and he’s a good boy.”
That Tierney’s Arsenal career got off to a more sluggish start than the left-back would have wanted goes without saying - a legacy of the persistent hip complaint which dogged his last season at Celtic.
But now with six top team games under his belt, Tierney’s emergence has excited Arsenal’s home support to the point that comparisons are already being drawn between the new boy and Liverpool’s Andy Robertson, who himself needed some settling in time at Anfield after a £6m move from Hull.
Rodgers, though, has never been in any doubt about the impact Tierney is about to make. And, in turn, the difference it might make to Arsenal’s soft centred mindset.
He said: “It can take time for players to adjust. You can’t just click your fingers and settle into another city, at a different club with new team mates, away from your family. It takes time.
“I’ve got the boy here with me at Leicester, Soyuncu, who had been here for six months before I joined the club. It actually took him a year before he actually got into the team. Now he’s doing very well.
“So Kieran will improve Arsenal with his quality. He’s got a massive heart and once he gets himself fully fit and adjusted to the life there he’s going to be a huge asset for them.
“He’s got leadership qualities - he inspires people around him - and he has that winning mentality from his time growing up at Celtic. He brings that mentality every day to training. He’s one of the best boys I’ve ever worked with in terms of that mentality and it spreads throughout the group.”
There are some who believe that very mentality has been missing for too long at the Emirates, which is precisely why Arsenal are struggling just to stay in touch with the race for the top four. Rodgers, though, declines to comment when it’s put to him that the Gunners might be in need of more of the same.
Who knows, at this rate considering the way he’s turning heads at Leicester, this could soon be his problem to solve. Saturday’s big reunion then might not be the last.
