
# 'Neymar Has To Be Like Ronaldinho & Leave PSG'

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:28:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/neymar-has-to-be-like-ronaldinho-leave-paris-saint-germain/666444)

Brazil superstar Neymar has been urged to follow in Ronaldinho's footsteps and leave Paris Saint-Germain if he wishes to become the best player in the world.

        
          Read: The Highest-Paid Player At Each LaLiga Club Revealed
        
      
Neymar was strongly linked with a move away from the reigning Ligue 1 champions at the beginning of the season, but saw a potential return to FC Barcelona collapse, but former Brazil international Rivaldo believes the 27-year-old should persist in his attempts to leave the club.
"I believe a lot in Neymar. But I think he has to leave," Rivaldo said, as per Sky Sports.
"That's why he wanted to leave at this transfer window at any cost, PSG is a great club but not one for the level of Neymar.
"I think that, at a world stage, everybody talks only about Barcelona, Real Madrid and some other big clubs from England, some from Germany.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      
"He has to go to a club that has more history at Champions (League).
"Of course, if he wins the Champions (League) and can be a world champion, it will be much easier to become the best player in the world.
"He has to be like Ronaldinho. Ronaldinho left there (PSG) to come to Barcelona to be the best player in the world. But he still has time, he's 27 years old, a lot of things ahead of him.
"He almost left this year and I believe he will leave at the next transfer window. And he will be the best player in the world."

        
          Read: 'People Must Learn To Respect Neymar'
        
      
Neymar joined PSG from Barca in 2017 for a world-record fee of €222 million (R3.7 billion), and has since scored 55 goals in 63 appearances for the club.
