
# WAF seeks Munir Akram’s removal as UN envoy

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:20:50+00:00**

Author: **​ Our Correspondent**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2091950/1-waf-seeks-munir-akrams-removal-un-envoy/)

KARACHI:  
The Women’s Action Forum (WAF) has sought the removal of Munir Akram as Pakistani’s permanent ambassador to the United Nations, terming his reappointment “illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional and liable to be struck down”.
Akram replaced Dr Maleeha Lodhi shortly after Prime Minister Imran Khan’s campaign at the UNGA in September.
The petition, filed by WAF in the Sindh High Court, stated that the reappointment violated Section 14(1) of the Civil Servants Act 1973.
The petition cited a Supreme Court decision in a suo moto case pertaining to corruption in 2010 Hajj arrangements, wherein it was maintained that a retired civil servant could only be re-employed in an exceptional case.
The petitioner argued that the superior courts had elucidated the interpretation of the term ‘public interest’ by saying that the government could neither claim to be exempted from the obligation to follow any law, rules and regulations on some indefinite and undisclosed ground of necessity or expediency, nor could it unilaterally deviate from its legal obligation and justify such deviation on an ex-parte appraisement of the circumstances.
“If the government intends to justify an act on the ground of public interest, it is required under the law, to disclose cogent and definite reasons for carrying out such act,” the petition read. “The government is bound to produce proper and adequate material in order to satisfy that overriding public interest justified execution of the same.”
In its petition, the WAF highlighted a domestic violence accusation against Akram, and urged the court to “reflect on the impression this creates in the global environment, and also the impression made of the standards of behaviour reflective of official representatives”.
“To ignore one claim, especially at a time when women’s rights movements are pushing for ‘Believe Her’, is to present a poor image of Pakistan, a Pakistan that does not uphold women’s rights or understands the complexities of domestic violence claims.”
The petitioners have prayed the court to declare the reappointment illegal and permanently restrain Akram from performing duties as the country’s ambassador to the UN.
 
