
# Mum of two spills the beans on how she's renovated her entire home for free

Published at: **2019-11-02T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/mum-two-spills-beans-how-20789635)

A young mum who made the decision to relocate with her partner after becoming pregnant with her first child, has said she’s turned into an expert at home renovations after moving into their first place with very little spare money.
Five years later, Rebecca Compton now has two boys and her own YouTube channel featuring her own home-makeovers on a budget.
“I was in a long distance when I became pregnant,” Rebecca, 27, told Mirror Money.
“That was five years ago – but since then I’ve fallen in love with home renovations, looking after the kids at home while making out little property our dream home,” she said.
Rebecca says she’s saved hundreds and possibly thousands of pounds on home renovations in the past few years – by snapping up new carpets, a mantle piece, a Singer sewing machine and wallpaper for free.
“When we first moved into our home in Walsall, Birmingham, it was a blank canvas,” she explained.
 
“We're still renting the same house, but our landlord has been really understanding with us wanting to make it our own.
“At the time of moving in, I got a few bits from friends and family, we bought a new bed and sofa – but we had no actual flooring. On our shoe-string budget, we had to think outside of the box."
But she says she's always had a creative flair - it was just a case of putting it to good use.
“I come from quite a crafty family – my mum and gran have always been into DIY, so I was more than happy to decorate our home the secondhand way.”
On her quest to make her dream home for free, Rebecca says she became obsessed with websites Freegle, Freecycle, Freelywheely and Facebook Marketplace.
“Once you sign up to the freebie websites, they’ll start sending you alerts every morning. Go on there each day to see what’s been listed – everything is free!”
She says if you’re after something specific – put a request out, as other users are always on the look out for ways to give their unused treasures a new home.
“Over the past few years I’ve saved hundreds of pounds on the sites. All for free, I’ve managed to pick up a solid wood wardrobe, shredder, and even a vintage, working sewing machine to do my crafts around the house.
 
“I’ve always said, if you wait long enough, you can get it for free – and it’s true.”
But it’s not just online websites that she’s cottoned on to.
“If you go into B&Q or any hardware shop for that matter, you can request some sample wallpaper.
“B&Q will give you a whole wall length for free – I combined that with my free mantle piece in the living room and managed to do the entire place up for £3.50. All I paid for was the gold paint.
“Wallpaper is also good for upcycling anything from tables, to beds and even things for the children. I covered one panel on my son’s bed with superhero wallpaper – and he absolutely loved it.
"In fact, I gave both of my boys a superhero themed room in 24 hours for just £60 altogether.
"I've even renovated toys - picking up a free batmobile, and turning it 'new' for my son's second birthday."
 
"I also made over my bathroom for just over £50 - £40 of that was the flooring.
"I  covered my kitchen worktops and cupboards for just £25! This was a big hit on my YouTube channel! I uploaded two video tutorials - and got 88,000 views combined."
Speaking about her other achievements, Rebecca said she recently taught herself how to change her own carpets – giving her stairs a makeover.
“I even filmed it and put the whole video on YouTube. If you want something enough – you can make it happen. I saved at least £200 on the fitting alone.”
Speaking on how others can get involved in free renovations, she says it’s all about having a plan and “thinking about what you can make of it”.
“Make a plan, stick to local pages (less travelling means saving the planet) and use Pinterest for inspiration. There’s a great Facebook page called DIY On a Budget which is wonderful for inspiration.
“And lastly, do it yourself. It’s such a rewarding feeling to see the result of your own hard work.”
You can keep an eye on all of Rebecca's home renovations on Instagram, here.
