
# CT City Put Five Past Polokwane After Benni Exit

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/absa-premiership-report-cape-town-city-v-polokwane-city-06-november-2019/666906)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: Cape Town City 5-3 Polokwane City
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Cape Town Stadium
Just days after Benni McCarthy's departure, Cape Town City got back to winning ways in the Absa Premiership with a 5-3 thumping of Polokwane City on Wednesday evening.
Assistant coach Vasili Manousakis took charge of the side following McCarthy's departure on Sunday, while the club did announce the appointment of Jan Olde Riekerink as their new head coach earlier on Wednesday.
City handed a debut to Greek defender Ioannis Potouridis, while Riyaad Norodien, Siphelele Mthembu and Roland Putsche earned re-calls to the Citizens line-up.
The hosts did not take long to settle after breaking the deadlock as early as the fifth minute, with Kermit Erasmus netting his sixth league goal of the season.
The lead was doubled seven minutes later as Mthembu marked his return to the line-up with a superb finish into the top corner for his first goal of the campaign.
However, Rise and Shine pulled a goal back after 21 minutes as a defensive error allowed Charlton Mashumba to sneak in and fire past Sage Stephens.
Polokwane's goal did not seem to disrupt the Citizen's momentum after the home side restored their two-goal advantage on the stroke of halftime thanks to Erasmus' second on night the night.
Rise and Shine saw a bit more of the ball in the second half, which prompted Manousakis to introduce Craig Martin and Mpho Makola for Mthembu and Norodien after the hour mark.
The change proved fruitful as City bagged a fourth goal in the 71st minute, with Makola nodding home a pinpoint cross from skipper Thamsanqa Mkhize.
The fifth goal arrived two minutes later as Edmilson Dove embarked on a individual run down the flank before finding the back of the net from a tight angle.
Polokwane did pull another goal back through Mashumba's second of the night in the 86th minute, before the striker completed his hat-trick in second-half stoppage time but the Citizens held on for the win.

        Here's how they lined up:
      
City: 16. Stephens, 2. Mkhize, 12. Fielies, 27. Potouridis, 5. Edmilson, 19. Putsche, 26. Nodada, 9. Erasmus, 11. Ralani, 17. Norodien, 25. Mthembu.
Subs: Anderson, 6. Seedat, 21. Mokeke, 30. Martin, 25. Lakay, 8. Makola, 41. Abrahams.
Polokwane: 1. Chigova, 26. Nkili, 32. Buthelezi, 22. Mbonani, 27.Motloung, 14. Manaka, 16. Mngomezulu, 20. Phiri, 9. Mashumba, 8. Maluleke, 7. Booi.
Subs: 40. Chibwe, 24. Hlongwane, 4. Nene, 6. Chauke, 18. W.Maluleke, 15. Musona, 33. Nku.
