
# The West Ham United January transfer report West Brom fans won't want to hear

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:49:06+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Kemble**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/west-ham-united-january-transfer-17188107)

West Bromwich Albion could be set to lose star loanee Grady Diangana in the January transfer window.
That's according to Football Insider , who claim West Ham United will recall the winger who has racked up four goals and three assists in his first 12 games with Albion .
The forward has wasted no time winning over fans at The Hawthorns, helping his loan club to the top of the Championship table.
But just like when Harvey Barnes was recalled by Leicester in January of last season, West Brom 's promotion hopes could be dealt a significant blow.
Football Insider claim West Ham are planning on recalling Diangana in the winter window..
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
But they are, if the report is to be believed, going to soften the blow by sending young winger Nathan Holland to West Brom to take Diangan a's place.
The report claims a West Ham source has described the exchange as a 'live' option.
Holland is a 21-year-old wide man who has been with West Ham since 2017, when he arrived from Everton.
The youngster was also an England under-19 international. He is yet to register a senior appearance in professional football.
