
# Billy Joe Saunders defends fighting on KSI vs Logan Paul undercard

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:33:29+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/billy-joe-saunders-defends-fighting-20811960)

Billy Joe Saunders had no idea who social media stars KSI and Logan Paul were when he was offered a fight on their undercard.
But the super-middleweight world champion plans to steal their thunder and announce himself to their American audience.
Saunders will defend his title against Marcelo Esteban Coceres in Los Angeles on Saturday night before KSI and Paul clash in their rematch.
The YouTube stars have turned professional for the sequel to their draw in Manchester last year and are expected to pull in a crowd of 20,000 and millions of viewers worldwide.
And Saunders dismissed criticism of his decision to play second fiddle to a glorified white-collar bout.
"I am looking forward to it because it is my American debut," he said. "I am up for the challenge and I am going over there to put my name out.
"There would not be much point in sending me out there as chief-support on a 4,000-seater fight when I can go to LA in front of a sold-out 20,000 with two guys who had 10million views for their press conference.
"If I can take five or 10 per cent of their crowd with a good performance then I am establishing my name in America and giving myself a better chance of getting a Gennady Golovkin or Canelo Alvarez.
"I hadn’t heard of KSI or Logan Paul but people should take their hat off to them because they have come from nowhere. That demands respect because they have both done great business.
“I have always thought that ‘main event’ and ‘chief support’ is bulls***, the best fight of the night steals the show."
Saunders has fought just twice in the last two years and has made more headlines for courting controversy outside the ring.
Last year he was fined £100,000 for taunting a drug addict, offering £150 of crack cocaine to perform a sex act and punch a passer-by while he sat in his Rolls-Royce.
But he is determined to make up for lost time.
“I made a lot of mistakes early on in my career but now I want my name out there for the right reasons. I want the fights with the likes of Canelo, Golovkin and Danny Jacobs," he said.
“I don’t care what sort of crowd it is, when you got out to a packed arena that lifts any fighter and you thrive on that energy.
"I was instantly interested when the offer came through. All this show does is benefit me because, as long as I look good, the Americans are going to remember me for when I come back again."
