
# Clubs are eyeing Tahith Chong, warns Erkan Alkan

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:59:36+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/clubs-are-eyeing-tahith-chong-warns-erkan-alkan?utm_medium=rss)


        Manchester United youngster Tahith Chong’s agent Erkan Alkan has warned the club that Chong might leave the club if his contract situation doesn’t improve with a number of clubs interested. Juventus, PSG and Milan are tracking the youth’s development and are keen to sign him in the future.
      
Manchester United’s starlet Tahith Chong has been linked to several European powerhouses since his rise at the club. The player’s agent, Erkan Alkan, has warned the club that his client will consider new options if he isn’t given an improved contract. The report further added that the Dutch winger’s contract expires at the end of the season and the player is waiting for a suitable contract to be presented by the club chiefs.
Chong has become a regular in the matchday squad since Ole Gunnar Solskjaer took over the reins at Old Trafford. The 19 year old has made 8 appearances for the club but has regularly featured on the United’s bench. A new deal hasn’t been agreed by the youngster with the agent demanding a more suitable contract for the Dutchman. Juventus are the latest club to be linked with a move for Chong next summer, and the player's agent, Erkan Alkan, has warned that other offers could be considered.
“It is true that top clubs keep an eye on the situation around Tahith. But it’s still early in the season. We are quietly waiting to see what United will come up with or else we will see what is best for Tahith’s development next summer,” said Alkan to the Manchester Evening news. 
In an interview, Tahith expressed happiness to be involved in the club’s senior setup and wishes to play more games for the Old Trafford tenants. Meanwhile, his agent has warned the club that Chong will leave the club next summer if his contract isn’t sorted in near future.
“All of us really, just there now, are having a lot of learning curves and are gaining a lot of experience up to now. It has been amazing really and, just thinking about it, being a first-team player, is something you dream about. Training is a different level as well now. Definitely, the training and the games are tougher, stuff like that, as you progress, but you keep training and keep playing games and you’ll get there,” Chong told the Manchester United club website.
