
# Windscribe VPN is now offering Black Friday pricing on their subscriptions

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:30:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/windscribe-vpn-now-offering-black-friday-pricing-their-subscriptions?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

As the first line of defense against nefarious hackers and cyberattacks, a VPN is a must-have app for anyone who’s interested in protecting everything from their browsing history to their banking information. But not all VPNs are created equal.
Windscribe VPN is an award-winning service that safeguards your privacy without inhibiting your browsing speed, and a 3-year Pro subscription is available for over 75% off at just $69.
Unlike most VPNs that offer limited security and limited bandwidth, Windscribe VPN keeps all of your devices safe without slowing you down.
Also available as 1-year, 2-year, and 4-year subscriptions, this service allows you to easily access a growing number of super-secure servers across the globe, remove ads and trackers from your everyday browsing experience, and mask your physical location from 3rd parties via an encrypted tunnel.
You’ll even be able to torrent securely and share files without having to worry about your ISP snooping on you.
Protect your data and privacy online with a 3-year Pro subscription to Windscribe VPN for just $69—over 75% off for a limited time.

        Prices are subject to change.
      
 

        App Defense Offense Google's App Defense Alliance teams up to fight malware on Android Google is sharing technology and creating a partnership of mobile endpoint security companies to identify and control the spread of malware
      

        come closer Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity Ultrasonic sensing is now rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max, which allows them to dynamically change what is on the display as you get closer or further away.
      

        Did You Hear That Nest Secure will soon be able to detect breaking windows Nest Secure's microphone will soon be able to do more than just take Assistant commands. Beginning in early November, Google will enable Glass break detection which will allow it to sound the alarm when a window breaks.
      

        Look ma no wires Ditch the wires with these Pixel 4 charging pads Wireless charging on the Pixel 4 doesn't have the same caveats as the Pixel 3, and that means you can get a fast wireless charger without breaking the bank!
      
