
# TK Maxx mocked for £100 shoes that look 'perfect for a foot-and-mouth epidemic'

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/tk-maxx-mocked-100-shoes-20833072)

Shoppers have mocked a pair of designer shoes on sale at TK Maxx saying that look like they're covered with swimming pool-style shoe guards.
Others joked that the £100 footwear by Joseph were "perfect" for wearing during a foot and mouth epidemic.
The black and blue creation were also dubbed 'operating chic' and that they gave off a 'swimming pool look.'
Janet McConnell posted snaps of the boots from TK Maxx's website, adding: "Amazing! They really have captured that 'Swimming pool' look!!"
Lauren Matthews said: "Perfect for when you want to look fancy during a foot and mouth epidemic!"
 
Sarah Elizabeth said: "You could visit a show home and not have to worry about putting little plastic protectors on the bottom of your shoes!"
Kerri Hillard said: "Looks like something you'd wear during a foot & mouth outbreak."
Stuart Java said; "When you have to perform surgery at 6 but be at the club by 7."
And Helen Burnett added: "When you visit someone and have to wipe your feet on the way out."
 
Others said the footwear was "abattoir chic."
Jayne Nicoll said: "When you have lunch at 11 and a crime scene at 12."
Alice Taylor added: "Voila! I can't tell you how long I have been searching for some boots, kinda cowboy style, but not and look like you're wearing floor protectors but with the heel showing through.
"Amazing people amazing!"
Claire HillI said: "I wore something like that when I worked in an isolation unit in a hospital.
"We threw them away, if I had known I could sell them them I'd be quid in."
Nicola Rachel Wilson said: "But handy if you go to the swimming pool. Often I can't be faffed with endlessly putting those bloody things on."
And Jenny Munro-Hunt said: "Definitely good for visiting a showhome.
"Then when you trample dirt all over the cream carpets you can run away laughing 'haha these are just my shoes! Joke's on you, Barrett Homes!"
Joseph is a British label founded in 1966 by Casablanca-born Joseph Ettedgui.
