
# The Grenfell inquiry lays blame at the feet of the fire brigade

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Economist](https://www.economist.com/britain/2019/11/02/the-grenfell-inquiry-lays-blame-at-the-feet-of-the-fire-brigade)

ASKED WHY the London Fire Brigade had not done more to prepare for the Grenfell Tower fire, its head, Dany Cotton, had a glib answer: “I wouldn’t develop a training package for a space shuttle landing in front of the Shard.” So unlikely was such a fire judged to be, and so correct the policy of recommending people stay put, that she argued the fire brigade ought to share little blame for the tragedy on June 14th 2017, in which 72 people died. “I would not change anything we did on the night,” she said.
The report from the Grenfell Tower Inquiry, delivered on October 30th, does not support her judgment. Led by Sir Martin Moore-Bick, a former judge, the first stage of the inquiry was concerned with what happened on the night. The next and final stage will take a broader look at the underlying causes of the fire, including the government’s role and the building’s design. A separate criminal investigation is looking at whether any laws were broken.
When findings from the report leaked the day before its release, there was outrage that heroic firefighters had been criticised. In fact, Sir Martin pays tribute to the “extraordinary courage” of many on the night. But the report lays out in agonising detail the institutional failings of the fire brigade.
They begin with a failure to learn lessons from previous fires. The risk of ones involving cladding have been known about for three decades. In 2009, during a fire at a 14-storey tower, the fire brigade struggled with the volume of emergency calls. Despite this, it was ill-prepared for Grenfell. There had been no consideration of how the tower could be evacuated, and even experienced firefighters were not trained to deal with a blaze of this type.
Partly as a result, those in charge were far too slow to adapt to circumstances. By 1.26am, some 17 minutes after the fire had spread from the flat in which it began, flames had reached the top of the tower. Inside, smoke was climbing quickly. Yet still official advice—based on the belief that building regulations ensured fires were “compartmentalised”—was that residents should stay put. It was not until 2.47am, when command changed, that people were advised to escape.
The inquiry does not focus only on the fire service. It notes failings in other emergency services, and says the building’s cladding helped the flames spread. Although it will wait to ascribe responsibility for the building’s problems, it finds “compelling evidence” that regulations were not met—“it would be an affront to common sense to hold otherwise.” The report recommends requiring owners and managers of towers to install alarms and to develop evacuation strategies, overturning long-established practice.
Meanwhile, the fire service is instructed to improve training, communication along the chain of command and the way it deals with emergency calls. But the broader, implied suggestion is that it needs a change of culture. After the report was published, Ms Cotton told an interviewer that she disagreed that more people could have been saved if the building had been evacuated quickly. As the report notes, it appears the London Fire Brigade “is an institution at risk of not learning the lessons of the Grenfell Tower fire.” Especially if its leadership refuses to admit it got anything wrong. ■
