
# The Minuses of Bringing a Plus One to Meetings with Counsel

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Jacobs**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/insider/2019/11/04/the-minuses-of-bringing-a-plus-one-to-meetings-with-counsel/)

It’s a privilege to have a close family, but the presence of family members for conversations with counsel can waive privilege. Nowhere does this create more of a potential problem than in criminal prosecutions. In such cases, it is not uncommon for a client to want a spouse, parent, or even child on hand at counsel’s office to discuss, for example, general strategy, the risks of going to trial, or plea options. The desire to include family members in these conversations makes sense, because the choices an individual makes in a criminal matter can have wide-ranging consequences for loved ones. But including family members in conversations with counsel creates the risk that the conversation will not be treated as confidential, and that one of those family members could be called to testify to the contents of the conversation. It is important that counsel, clients, and family members alike understand those risks and how to minimize them.In general, conversations between counsel and a client take place under the protection of the attorney-client privilege, which preserves the confidentiality of the conversations (at least where the client’s purpose is to get legal advice). Under well-established law, however, when a client permits a third party to be present for an attorney-client conversation, this sometimes (but not always) waives the privilege, meaning the third party, the client, or even the attorney could be required to disclose the contents of the conversation. Although seemingly straightforward, the law regarding the attorney-client privilege—and the effect of the presence of a third party—varies by state, and even by court, leaving a good deal of uncertainty. This issue also is not litigated with great frequency, and the paucity of decisions adds even greater uncertainty.
Take, for example, the law in New York, where the decisions that have emerged are all over the map. The general rule appears to be that the attorney-client privilege does not apply when a client’s spouse or other family member is present for a conversation between client and counsel. For example, in a 1980 quadruple homicide case, People v. Allen, the court directed defense counsel to turn over notes reflecting statements of the client’s wife, which were made in the defendant’s presence. The court wrote that “the law is clear that communications between husband and wife made in the known presence of a third person are not confidential and, hence, are not privileged,” and that “[t]he attorney-client privilege is similarly waived.” At the same time, this general rule has at least one significant exception: the presence of a family member does not destroy the privilege when the family member acts as the client’s agent. For example, in a 2007 case, In re Sosnow, a New York surrogate’s court found a husband’s presence as his wife’s agent during otherwise privileged communications did not destroy the privilege. (This agency principle applies beyond spouses, to any family member or other third party agent, allowing, for example, a sign-language interpreter to be present for an otherwise privileged conversation without breaking privilege.) And yet another line of cases, including a 2003 decision from Judge Lewis Kaplan in the Southern District of New York, has held that the presence of a client’s spouse does not destroy the privilege. Indeed, a footnote in Judge Kaplan’s decision expressly states, “[t]hat Target’s spouse was present during some of these conversations does not destroy any applicable privilege.”
In light of these disparate strands of case law, it may be difficult for an attorney, facing the prospect of a client’s family member joining a meeting with the client, to advise definitively on whether a court would later find the conversation privileged. One recent decision issued by the Colorado Supreme Court vividly illustrates the risks of allowing family members to be present for attorney-client communications. In that case—Fox v. Alfini, the decision for which was issued in December 2018—a court overseeing a medical malpractice litigation compelled a client to disclose to her adversary the recording of her initial legal consultation because her parents were present. The client, a woman in her early thirties, had suffered a stroke following chiropractic treatment and, together with her parents, contacted an attorney to discuss filing a malpractice action against her chiropractor. The attorney recorded the initial consultation and the adversary learned of the recording during a deposition and sought its production.
In ruling on the question of privilege in Fox, the Colorado Supreme Court held that a communication between an attorney and client made in the presence of a third party is not considered confidential unless the client has an expectation of privacy and the presence of the third party is necessary to facilitate the attorney-client communication. Applying this so-called “objective” standard, the court concluded that because the client did not show diminished mental capacity, her parents were not necessary to facilitate her communications with the lawyer. The court did not reach the merits of the plaintiff's additional arguments, made on a motion for reconsideration, that her parents’ presence did not destroy the privilege because they were prospective clients, were acting as her agents, and shared a common interest with the daughter, nor did the court reach the argument that the recording was protected from disclosure by the work-product doctrine. But in a concurring opinion, one Justice opined that had the plaintiff not invoked the work product doctrine too late, it was "the most logical refuge for parties on facts like these."
The "objective" test from Fox, which turns on whether a third party was necessary to facilitate an attorney-client communication, is not the law everywhere. In "subjective" jurisdictions, the existence of attorney-client privilege depends on whether the client understood the meeting to be confidential notwithstanding the presence of a third party. In State v. Sucharew, for example, the Arizona Court of Appeals upheld the attorney-client privilege when a child's parents were present at a meeting with his lawyer, noting that the parents were "taking an understandable parental interest and advisory role in their minor son's legal affairs." Similarly, in Kevlik v. Goldstein, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit upheld the attorney-client privilege when a father attended a meeting with the lawyer for his adult son, stating that the father was "[a]cting in a normal and supportive parental fashion" and that the privilege should stand because it was the common intention of the client and his father that the consultation was to be confidential and privileged. (For a helpful review of the case law, see Jared S. Sunshine, Clients, Counsel, and Spouses: Case Studies at the Uncertain Junction of the Attorney-Client and Marital Privileges, in the Albany Law Review.)
At least in federal investigations, beyond the case law, the Department of Justice’s policy (in section 9-23.211 of the Justice Manual) provides some comfort that the Department “will ordinarily avoid seeking to compel the testimony of a witness who is a close family relative of the defendant on trial or of the person upon whose conduct grand jury scrutiny is focusing.” But the exceptions to this rule permit a close family member’s testimony to be compelled where the witness and the relative (i) “participated in a common business enterprise and the testimony to be elicited relates to that enterprise or its activities; (ii) the testimony to be elicited relates to illegal conduct in which there is reason to believe that both the witness and the relative were active participants; or (iii) testimony to be elicited relates to a crime involving overriding prosecutorial concerns.” This final exception—for cases “involving overriding prosecutorial concerns”—is sufficiently amorphous and expansive so as to prevent counsel from taking much comfort in the Department’s general policy.
It is against this backdrop, deprived of clear rules, that criminal defense lawyers regularly must choose how to proceed when confronting the question of whether and how family members may be included in discussions with clients. The easiest approach is simply to exclude family members, which avoids risking a waiver of the attorney-client privilege and protects sensitive facts from disclosure. But that approach often is not in a client’s best interests, such as where the input of a family member is essential to an important decision like whether to plead guilty or go to trial. In this context, when a client wants family members present, counsel should be familiar with the applicable local law and explain the risks of waiver to both the client and the family members before engaging in any sensitive conversation. Counsel should also explain clear ground rules before engaging in any such conversation, including the ground rule that all participants should consider avoiding (or otherwise discuss in private with counsel) any particularly troublesome areas that they would not want to have to testify about down the road.
To read more from Brian A. Jacobs, please visit www.maglaw.com
