
# Ariana Grande Reflects on How Profoundly She Has 'Healed' and Grown in the Last Year

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29682234/ariana-grande-thank-u-next-anniversary-tweets-self-growth/?utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_medium=social-media)

Ariana Grande was feeling retrospective on the one-year anniversary of her big hit "Thank U, Next," so the singer took a little time to detail how much she has personally grown since the song came out. It's been tremendously and for the better.
This time last year, Grande just ended her engagement to Pete Davidson and was newly-single and healing from the loss of her ex-boyfriend Mac Miller (who passed away last summer from an apparent drug overdose) and end of her and Davidson's relationship. Grande is still single now and has done a lot of positive work on herself, she wrote.
"Happy birthday ‘Thank U, Next,’" she started her series of tweets. "I can’t believe I’ve spent more time alone this year than I have in my life, I can’t believe how many sessions w[ith] my therapist I’ve had, how many times I’ve sung this song, how much I’ve learned and healed, how much I still have to learn and heal!"
"It’s been one hall of a productive, emotional, wild and yet ...happy! year," she continued. "Thankful for my babies who have provided me with endless strength, energy and inspiration...and to my friends who have held me together on the road and at home. I’m sure they’re just as exhausted lmao. Update: I still don’t know shit ab[out] love or have a clue what a personal life looks like other than hanging with pups and piggy which I’ve learned is...actually...more than enough! Anyway, not sure why this anniversary has made me ramble on so much but....my heart feels good. Even though everything is up in the air / I still have a million questions...I’ve accepted it and feel somewhat whole, and that feels like something worth sharing. I guess. Love u."
