
# Mum reveals autistic son has been forcibly restrained in schools dozens of times

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Annie Brown, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/annie-brown/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/charity-demands-new-guidelines-restraint-20804001)

A mum has revealed how her son has been forcibly restrained in schools dozens of times.
Barbara Gourlay says 12-year-old Daniel, who has autism, was held down, forcibly carried and locked in a room.
Daniel, whose dad died when he was five, was not diagnosed until he was nine, by which time Barbara says he had been labelled as a “bad kid” and a “lost cause” at school.
She said: “Teachers just stopped trying to use the techniques that we know work and calm him down, and instead hit the nuclear button of restraint straight away.
“I would say to any teacher who has held down a young child repeatedly, without making an effort to understand them and what they need in that moment, that they’re probably in the wrong job.”
Barbara is backing Enable Scotland’s campaign against the use of restraint and seclusion in schools. She said: “Restraint should be the last resort and as we know, it isn’t always the case.”
Enable Scotland, which advocates for people with learning disabilities, said children are at risk due to unregulated and unacceptable practices in schools.
In 2017-18 alone, 2674 incidents of restraint and seclusion relating to 386 ­children were recorded by Scotland’s local ­authorities.
Campaigners say that this figure does not paint the full picture because 10 local authorities – almost a third – failed to provide data.
Enable is today launching a campaign calling on the Scottish Government to issue new guidance and stricter ­protocols on the use of restraint and seclusion in schools.
In its In Safe Hands? report, one parent says a girl was regularly secluded and restrained at school, and was even locked for 45 minutes in a so-called “safe space”, where she soiled herself.
Another parent says that from the age of five, her son was restrained ­regularly at school and kept in a cloakroom by a teacher who held the door closed because he would not put his shoes on.
Enable Scotland’s director of external affairs, Jan Savage, said she wants the Scottish Government to tackle the issue of restraint and seclusion through “better guidance, greater support for teachers, and transparency and improved reporting from schools”.
The campaign calls for new guidance on the use of restraint and seclusion in schools and a minimum of two trained staff members at all times.
The Scottish Government has said it will invest £15million in additional support for learning assistants.
