
# Halloween Kid Count: New suburbs bursting with hungry goblins

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:54:49+00:00**

Author: **Newsroom Staff**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/halloween-kid-count-new-suburbs-bursting-with-hungry-goblins)

If you live in one of Calgary’s newer suburbs, chances are you were busy Thursday night handing out Halloween candy to little ghouls and goblins.
The largest reported numbers for Postmedia’s annual Halloween Kid Count were in newer suburbs, especially in southwest.
With nearly 600 respondents to our annual survey, there was no clear winning community with ‘the most’ kids, but lots of communities stood out for having high traffic.
In the deep southeast, it was Auburn Bay, Chaparral and Evergreen. In the southwest, Garrison Woods was extremely busy. In the northwest, Panorama Hills, Royal Oak, Tuscany and West Springs were the leaders. And in the northeast, Marlborough was the place to be if you were in search of miniature chocolate bars.
There were plenty of reports of triple-digit numbers at the door, including a report of 650 kids in Auburn Bay, 700 at one house in Chaparral, and 750 in Evergreen.
There was a report of zero trick-or-treaters from one resident in Killarney, who was waiting with a bowl of suckers.

        Treats by the numbers
      
Here’s what our survey respondents said they handed out:
Full-sized chocolate bars: 13%
Candy-coated chocolate: 3%
Chewy candy: 7%
Suckers, hard candy: 2%
Mini-chocolate bars: 51%
Chips: 12%
Other: 5%

        Creative costumes
      
Our readers saw some creative costumes throughout the evening. Despite the ease and availability of store-bought costumes, lots of kids (and their parents) get in the spirit of Halloween by crafting one-of-a-kind costumes.
In Edgemont, two sisters went door-to-door dressed up as “Jane Goodall and her monkey” riding a homemade Jeep. In Sage Hill, one trick-or-treater was dressed as a “garbage truck complete with space for candy collection.” There was a report from Altadore of a group wearing “blood-covered hazmat suits.” And an Amazon delivery box was reported wandering in Auburn Bay.
Halloween also becomes a family affair for many. One home in New Brighton was graced with “a very big dad in a very tight unicorn onesie.” In Midnapore, a dad roamed the streets “dressed up like his daughter.” One Sage Hill resident reported “a Ghostbuster family with stay-puff baby.” In Garrison Woods, “a family of construction workers with a baby as a pylon” were putting in a hard night’s work collecting candy.
And while traditional costumes are always popular, there’s always a few that want to reflect current events in their costumes. One ‘Trump diaper baby’ was seen in Signal Hill. A no-doubt frightening Greta Thunberg was trick-or-treating in Sundance, and our survey had reports of multiple Justin Trudeau costumes, including one reportedly in blackface.
