
# Son Accused Of Purposely Overreacting To Gomes Ankle Break

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/heung-min-son-accused-of-purposely-overreacting-to-andre-gomes-ankle-break/666756)

After making the initial tackle that resulted in Andre Gomes breaking his ankle, Tottenham Hotspur star Heung-min Son has been accused of going over the top with his reaction to the Everton midfielder's nasty injury.

        Click through the gallery above to see Son's reaction to Gomes' injury.
      
The 27-year-old South Korean clipped the former FC Barcelona man before the latter landed awkwardly and crashed into right-back Serge Aurier, suffering a dislocated fracture on his right ankle.
It was not until Son walked over to Gomes to apologise for the tackle that he realised the extent of his opponent's injury, and reacted by throwing his hands over his head with a look of shock on his face. The attacker then burst into tears, before being consoled by those around him.
However, former Premier League striker Stan Collymore believes Son, who was sent off in the aftermath of the challenge, overreacted because of the repercussions he was about to face.

        
          Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
"I am not saying (Son and Aurier) shouldn't have been upset or shown distress, because these are normal human emotions," he wrote in a column for the Daily Mirror.
"The way Son reacted made it look like he thought football — the referee, the authorities, fans at home and in the crowd, opponents – was going to come down on him like a ton of bricks, even though we could all see he didn't deliberately go out to cause Gomes' injury.
"For a while now, I have been bothered that players and managers seem to think they must show an extreme version of their emotions because of the comeback they will get if they do not.
"Nowadays, footballers seemingly have to go over the top to present themselves before the court of public opinion and that needs to stop."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Everton have since confirmed that Gomes' surgery on Monday was successful, although it remains to be seen how long he will be out for.
