
# Fans show support for Shamrock Rovers goalkeeper Alan Mannus who turned away from flag

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SUZANNE MCGONAGLE**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/football-fans-support-for-goalkeeper-alan-mannus-1756469/)

FOOTBALL fans have spoke out in support of goalkeeper Alan Mannus after he failed to turn to face the tricolour during the playing of the Irish national anthem before a cup final.
The Northern Ireland international footballer stared straight ahead during the FAI Cup final between Dundalk and Shamrock Rovers at the Aviva Stadium in Dublin on Sunday.
Mannus (37) was lining out for Shamrock Rovers when, as Amhran na bhFiann was played, he stood facing forward and did not turn to face the flag.
The former Linfield and St Johnstone goalkeeper, who was born in Canada but moved to Northern Ireland as a child, was the only one of the 22 players who did not turn to face the tricolour.
His decision angered some supporters who felt he was disrespecting the anthem, while others said he was within his right.
One football fan wrote on Twitter: "I struggle to think of a (present or former) Saints player that would be less likely to set out to upset or offend people than him. Abhorrent comments being directed towards him. Top goalkeeper and top man."
Another said: "Why is Alan Mannus even a debate? If he doesn't want to face the flag isn't that his own choice. Live and let live", while another added: "I think I speak for 100 per cent of Rovers fans when I say Alan Mannus is a hero and I don't care if he did the Macarena during the anthem".
But his actions were criticised by others who said he had failed to respect the anthem
One man wrote on Twitter that Mannus "doesn't have to sing but respect costs nothing", while another said: "Shout out to Alan Mannus disrespecting his national flag".
Mannus, who has been capped nine times for Northern Ireland, is currently in his second spell at Shamrock Rovers after spending seven years at St Johnstone in between.
He was part of the St Johnstone team that won the Scottish Cup in 2014.
During Sunday's match, he became one of Shamrock Rovers' heroes after saving a penalty in a shootout after normal and extra time ended in a 1-1 draw.
Rovers won the shootout 4-2 to record their first FAI Cup win for 32 years.
