
# Brighton Landlord Takes the Absolute Piss With a One Bed Flat That Has a Loo Next to the Bed

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:00:55+00:00**

Author: **Shabana Arif**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/brighton-toilet-bedroom-flat/)

Renting sucks. Trawling through overpriced flats is a nightmare as it is, but paying through the nose to take a shit next to the bed is on another level entirely.
A Brighton flat has caught a lot of flack - and deservedly so - for this absolutely mental setup that sees a toilet plonked next to the bed. Is it a large, mostly carpeted bathroom with a bed stuck in it, or a bedroom that inexplicably features a wet room, toilet bowl and all? Who knows, but it was a bloody stupid idea, regardless.
The listing was first spotted and posted on Twitter before making the rounds on the internet, and it looks like the landlord has had the good sense - delayed as it may be - to take it down, because there's a fucking toilet next to the bed.
It would be bad enough if it was being palmed off as some super cheap hellhole, but considering you can rent a traditional flat that's cordoned off the toilet in its own room for the same price, I can't fathom who in their right mind would even dream they could get away with this shit, but they've got quite the pair of balls on them, that's for sure.
"The bedroom is a fantastic size having double glazed window to front and en-suite wet room area." reads the description (via The Sun), playing it somewhat fast and loose with the definition of en-suite there.
The listing apparently reads "Location, location, location' is something that will spring to mind when viewing this property, Western Road and the shopping mall are located within half a mile," without a hint of irony, knowing full well that the only thing springing to mind is speculation on the sanity of whoever built the place, and the loony trying to squeeze out a grand a month in rent for the place.
If you've given up on life, but are sustained purely through frittering away your money on stupid things, or you particularly enjoy the sights and smells of your SO unloading a big fat dump mere feet away from your snoozing face, keep an eye out for this nonsense flat which will no doubt worm its way back onto rental sites once the media coverage has cooled off. [Vice]
Feature image credit: Rightmove
