
# The best deals on Fitbits and their alternatives on Black Friday 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:14:31+00:00**

Author: **Neil Bennett, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/neil-bennett/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/best-deals-fitbits-alternatives-black-17186619)

Today, Google confirmed the acquisition for a total of $2.1bn.
The company first launched in San Francisco, California and is one of the leading players in the growing 'wearable technology tend'.
Their range of products, which vary from watches to 'zips' to wireless headphones and smart scales, are designed to help users track everything from their heart rate to the quality of their sleep.
Many budding fitness enthusiasts also use Fitbits to track the number of steps walked or climbed as well tracking their daily nutritional habits.
Built in alongside their activity trackers, Fitbit also have their own website as well as iOS, Android and Windows mobile phone apps.
Through these devices and using Bluetooth technology, users can then log all of the data tracked by their Fitbits including calories burned and consumed and distances traveled.
The very first 'Classic' FitBit product was released in 2009. In the 10 years since they first hit the market, a number of adjustments and improvements have been made to models.
Later models include added extras giving users the ability to track their sleeping patterns.
To date, there has been a total of 21 FitBit models. The 'Versa', released last year, is one of their best selling products. A scaled down version of the Versa, the Versa Lite Edition, was their last product to hit the market.
 
