
# Frank Lampard predicted Chelsea fightback at half-time in game of madness

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:47:12+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/frank-lampard-predicted-chelsea-fightback-20821518)

Chelsea boss Frank Lampard has revealed he predicted his team's stunning fightback during half-time of their Champions League draw against Ajax on Tuesday.
The Blues were trailing last season's semi-finalists 4-1 with just 30 minutes remaining in the game but clawed their way back to secure a point at Stamford Bridge.
And things could have been even better for the Premier League club, who were denied a late winner by VAR in a chaotic encounter which also saw two own goals, two penalties and both Ajax centre-backs receive red cards.
Speaking to BT Sport after the final whistle, Lampard said: "I can't explain the game.
"For all the things that we might analyse, the goals we conceded, the madness of the game, we are here for entertainment I suppose.
"Even though there were some nervy moments, some crazy moments, anyone who was watching that, anywhere, has to say it was an incredible game of football."
Lampard continued: "Respect to Ajax, they're a great team. What a spectacle.
"The two own goals were the story of our first half. I said to the lads at half-time, 'I think we're going to draw this, it could be 3-3 or 4-4, it could be 4-3 - we can win it'.
"I just felt we were so in the game and we were short of just that last pass in the final third.
"I just felt that we would build momentum and fortunately, we did."
Ajax stormed into an early lead at Stamford Bridge when Tammy Abraham turned Quincy Promes' cross into his own net just two minutes into the game.
Jorginho briefly put the hosts level from the penalty spot before the Dutch champions' restored their lead with a Promes header in the 20th minute and a Kepa Arrizabalaga own goal before half-time.
Donny van de Beek appeared to put the game out of reach when he made it 4-1 ten minutes after the break, but Cesar Azpilicueta tapped in at the far post eight minutes later to start the comeback.
Ajax boss Erik ten Hag then saw both Daley Blind and Joel Veltman dismissed in the space of 60 seconds for a second yellow and a handball respectively.
Jorginho added his second goal of the game from the penalty spot before Reece James completed the turnaround three minutes later with a driven effort from a corner.
Azpilicueta thought he had scored a winner late on, but VAR ruled out the effort after Abraham was seen to have handled the ball in the build-up.
The draw leaves Chelsea in a three-way tie with Ajax and Valencia a the top of Group H, with each side on seven points.
Lampard's side travel to the Spanish side in their next game in the competition, who beat Lille 4-1, but face league Crystal Palace and Manchester City in the league before then.
