
# Barca Suffer Shock Loss, Despite Messi's Heroics

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:02:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/laliga/laliga-report-levante-v-fc-barcelona-02-october-2019/666595)


        LaLiga
      
Result: Levante 3-1 FC Barcelona
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Ciutat de Valencia
FC Barcelona failed to strengthen their lead at the top of LaLiga following a 3-1 defeat away to Levante on Saturday.
Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez and Antoine Griezmann started for the Catalans, but Sergi Roberto and Arthur Melo came in for Jordi Alba and Sergio Busquets respectively.
Barca were off to a flying start at the midway point after Griezmann fired into the side-netting from outside the area following a through ball by Nelson Semedo.
Barca went in front six minutes later when Messi drilled home his fifth strike of the season from the penalty spot after Semedo went down in the area.
Ernesto Valverde was forced to make a substitution four minutes to halftime after Suarez requested to leave the pitch to be replaced by Carles Perez.
Barca made a tentative start to the second half as Messi, Griezmann and joined by Perez struggled to open up their hosts who defended strongly.
Lapse of concentration drew the home side level when Jose Campana smashed home from close range 61 minutes in after the Catalans failed to eradicate a loose ball in the six yard box.
Levante hit the front two minutes later when Camapana turned provider to Borja Mayoral, who eliminated the last line to finish beyond Marc Andre Ter Stegen.
Barca however failed to prosper as Nemanja Radoja put the hosts further in front four minutes later when his shot wrong-footed Ter Stegen after coming off Busquets.
Messi reduced the deficit on 75 minutes when he combined with Griezmann to find the bottom corner, but the Video Assistant Referee disallowed for offside.
No frantic finish from either side cropped up, as Barca failed to open up a four-point gap over second-place Real Madrid, who now have the chance move top tonight.
