
# VIDEO | Jaydev Unadkat's 'brain fade' moment leads to bizarre run-out

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:54:51+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/video-jaydev-unadkats-brain-fade-moment-leads-to-bizarre-run-out?utm_medium=rss)


        Left-arm bowler Jaydev Unadkat experienced a 'Brain-Fade' moment when he got run out in the most bizarre fashion one could imagine. In the opening match of the Deodhar Trophy between India A and India B , Unadkat was batting for India A and was run out which left players bursting in laughter.
      
India A played India B in the Deodhar Trophy opener at Ranchi. With fantastic centuries from Ruturaj Gaikwad and Baba Aparajith, India B had set India A a target of 303 to win the game. It was in the 43rd over of India A's batting innings that this bizarre incident took place. Unadkat defended the ball with a quite decent technique. But he then just stood in that position and started doctoring the pitch with his bat, not properly observing that the ball had actually gone to Kedar Jadhav who was fielding at short cover.
Wicket-keeper Parthiv Patel had the presence of mind as he quickly urged Jadhav to throw the ball toward the keeper's end. Jadhav obliged and Parthiv whipped off the bails, leaving Unadkat embarrassed and stranded, and the India B players in laughter. However, thankfully, this one-of-a-kind run-out did not have any effect on the result of the game as Jaydev Unadkat was batting at a time where the game had already gone from the grasp of India A. They could only muster 194 in their innings, handing India B a mammoth 108-run victory.
