
# For umpires, Day/Night Test is like managing five back-to-back D/N ODIs: Taufel

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:42:09+00:00**

Author: **Prasad RS**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/for-umpires-day/night-test-is-like-managing-five-back-to-back-d/n-odis-taufel/articleshow/71880281.cms)

CHENNAI: India will take on Bangladesh in their first ever D/N Test at the Eden Gardens from November 22 and legendary Aussie umpire Simon Taufel believes it could be a positive step in reviving the oldest format of the game. "D/N Test presents an opportunity to help promote and advance Test cricket. But I don't see it as being the total answer because the quality of the cricket has to be top notch for people to invest their time and watch it," the 48-year-old told TOI on Sunday.
Not just the players, Taufel feels even the umpires too need to prepare themselves for a D/N Test. "A Day/Night Test is basically managing five back-to-back D/N One-dayers. You are starting the match very late and finishing it late as well. So umpires have to make adjustments to their morning routine, sleep patterns and ensure they have enough rest and are alert when it's required. That's going be the first challenge. The other challenge will be to deal with the colour of the ball and handling the breaks," Taufel said.
Despite almost every tight decision in recent times being referred to the third umpire these days, Taufel doesn't see technology limiting the role of the on-field umpires. "I think it's possibly changing a bit, but you would always need on-field umpires. But I would like to see umpires use technology to support their decision and not to replace it. I think the on-field umpires' responsibility and how they conduct the matches won't change with changes of technology," he said.
Another key development has been the emergence of women umpires in India. A CK Nayudu Trophy clash between Manipur and Mizoram saw two women umpires - Vrinda Rathi and N Janani - officiating for the very first time. Taufel feels women umpires must be given all the support they need before rating their performances. "It doesn't matter if you are male or female but you must be judged based on what you do on the field. I think in short term, it is important to give female match officials additional support and training. Female umpires should be given an opportunity to officiate at the highest level if they are good enough," he said.
Taufel - who stood in 74 Tests, 174 ODIs and 34 T20s - is currently in India to launch his book titled 'Finding The Gaps'. The five-time ICC umpire of the year feels his book will help people unlock their true potential. "The purpose of my book 'Finding The Gaps' is to make use some of the cricketing techniques that we have learnt at the elite level of sport and offer people tips, tools and highlight common traps that we often fall into and help people reach their potential," said Taufel.
