
# 10 Hacks US Navy SEALs Use That Can Help You Survive Against All Odds

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/inspiration-tips-and-tricks/10-hacks-us-navy-seals-use-that-can-help-you-survive-against-all-odds-794668/)

US SEALs are physically and mentally trained so strictly that they learn how to stay alive at all costs. They are the best when it comes to escaping really difficult situations. And we can learn a lot from them and their experience, especially when it comes to surviving in the wilderness.
Bright Side has investigated and come up with 10 hacks that can help you survive against all odds, all based on US Navy SEAL training.
Once you get to the surface bend your knees and then arch your back to be able to breathe. Repeat.
If you run out of water always try and search downhill, water runs in that direction. This will help you find clean water so you don’t get dehydrated.
This will prevent you from overthinking and will increase your chances of surviving as you organize yourself.
If you find yourself in this situation, you have to lay down and arch your back. This will help you get air faster as it will enter in your lungs more easily.
Small creeks will eventually merge with larger rivers. These rivers should lead to developed areas where you can find help.
The heat from fires causes rocks to expand, so you should never build one inside a cave. Expanding rocks will eventually break. If you are inside a cave and need warmth, try to build a fire outside.
Then try to rub your wrists together at the same time. Don’t just pull it or do it too hard because you could accidentally tighten it up.
Laying on your stomach with your head covered and legs crossed will keep you safer. You should open your mouth to prevent your lungs and eardrums from being blow up by the shock.
Mathsticks are a good way to build fire in any situation. You should always carry them inside a metal or plastic case so they are waterproof. Covering their heads in wax will also waterproof them. You can do this by dipping the head into hot wax and waiting for it to dry.
If you find yourself with frostbite, you need to take care of it as soon as possible. Never use hot water because that will make things worse. Warm the area with warm water and apply a bandage on all fingers. After that, you should put cotton between them to prevent them from touching. Also, never rub the affected area.
Have you ever found yourself in a difficult situation that could have been solved by one of these hacks?
Illustrated by Leisan Gabidullina for BrightSide.me
