
# Jeremie Frimpong on his new Celtic song as rising star soaks up Parkhead atmosphere

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Fraser Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/jeremie-frimpong-new-celtic-song-20818452)

Jeremie Frimpong admits he’s been dazzled by the Europa League atmosphere swirling round Parkhead.
Now he is desperate for Celtic to clinch last-32 qualification against Lazio so he can swap the comfort of the couch for centre stage at the party.
The 18-year-old former Manchester City kid wasn’t included in Neil Lennon’s squad for the group stages and will again settle down in front of the telly tomorrow to cheer on his team mates.
And at the forefront of his mind will be qualification so he can sample first hand the electric atmosphere of a Euro night under the lights.
He said: “I will be an interested spectator on Thursday night. I will be watching it on the television back in my flat.
“I think the team are ready. We’ve been playing well recently and hopefully the team can do it in Italy.
“I’m desperate for the boys to qualify for the knock out stages so I can experience Celtic Park on a European night as a player.
“If we keep playing like we have been playing then 100 per cent I’m confident we can get there.
“It would mean everything to play a European night at Parkhead. Playing in the Europa League was one of my dreams so it would be really good. I used to watch it on television so playing in it would be unreal.
 
“I had heard all about the atmosphere at Celtic Park and it’s lived up to my expectations. It’s been amazing.
“When it goes dark and then the lights turn green, I had never seen that before. When I saw it for the first time I was like: ‘oh wow'
"Then when everyone comes out of the huddle everyone is shouting and it’s so noisy. It’s so good.”
Celtic have never beaten Italian opposition in Italy but Frimpong is confident: “100 per cent. Hopefully we can go there and do that.
"The club has broken a few records in recent years so there’s no reason to think they can’t do it again.”
The Dutch-born right-back refuses to think about next month’s Betfred Cup Final against Rangers despite being handed his first taste of Hampden in the semi-final win over Hibs.
“I’ve been working hard for it and I was grateful for the manager that he chose me,” he said.
“It means everything that the manager trusts me. I’m a young kid but he knows I can do the job.”
Frimpong has taken no time to win over the Parkhead faithful - with a clip showing supporters blasting out a song in his name doing the rounds on social media this week.
He added: “I saw something on Twitter.
“The fans were on a coach and I couldn’t understand the accent but they were saying: ‘Frimpong, Frimpong’ and I really liked it.”

        
          Frimpong was speaking at Glasgow Sick Kids’ Hospital as Celtic FC Foundation launched their 2019 Christmas Appeal with the club kicking off the campaign with a £10,000 donation.
        
      
