
# PUBG Mobile v0.15.5 update brings new 4v4 Team Deathmatch map, Companions, new weapon and vehicle for Vikendi, and more

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/pubg-mobile-v0-15-5-update-brings-4v4-team-deathmatch-map-companions-new-weapon-vehicle-vikendi/)

Over the last year or so, the Battle Royale genre has exploded in popularity thanks, in part, to PUBG Mobile. But it’s not the only popular game in the genre and it faces stiff competition from Fortnite and the recently released Call of Duty Mobile. To keep the player base interested, developer Tencent Games keeps adding new content to the game with each successive update. Most recently, the game received a new Payload Mode with helicopters and the Desert Eagle handgun. And now, Tencent has released patch notes for the next major update.

        
          Visit XDA’s Android Gaming Forums
        
      
PUBG Mobile version 0.15.5 will start rolling out to players on November 8th and will kick off Royale Pass Season 10 with a new “Fury of the Wasteland” theme. As part of the update, the game is set to receive a new team deathmatch map called Ruins, a new SMG and vehicle exclusive to Vikendi, the companion system that we saw previously in a beta release, and a new character for the EVO modes. Here are the concise patch notes for the update, along with some additional information:
Royale Pass Season 10: Fury of the Wasteland
New weapon MP5K:
New vehicle Zima:
Season System: Added Tier Protection Card rewards to the Platinum and Crown tiers. After reaching the Ace tier, players can earn one star for every 100 points they gain. The icon changes with the number of stars.
Changed Arcade mode availability
Along with the aforementioned features, the update will also bring some much-needed improvements to the team recruitment channel and clans, among other things. You can check out the complete changelog by following the link below. It’s worth noting that while the update will start rolling out on November 8th, the servers won’t be taken offline. Players who update between November 8th and 14th will receive 20 Silver, 2,000 BP, and 1 Blue Glider Trail. PUBG Mobile v0.15.5 will require approximately 0.21GB of storage space on Android and 0.24GB on iOS.

        Source: PUBG Mobile
      
