
# Horrors await poor Sophie Foster in 'Keeper of the Lost Cities: Legacy'

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:30:16+00:00**

Author: **Jason Weisberger**

Original: [Boing Boing](https://boingboing.net/2019/11/06/horrors-await-poor-sophie-fost.html)

The latest in Shannon Messenger's Keeper of the Lost Cities series, Legacy is now available.
No one hates her protagonist as much as Shannon Messenger. I have enjoyed every moment of this series, watching Messenger find new ways to make poor Sophie Foster's life an absolute living hell.
While ostensibly these novels are about a group of teenaged Elves learning their magical elf powers and saving the world for elves, humans, trolls, gnomes and munchkins alike, the underlying and distinct themes be all kinds of weird.
I know parents let their kids read these books, I think they are better read as an adult dark comedy.
Early books in this series focus on subjecting Sophie to all sorts of ridiculous torture. She is abducted from her human family by 'elves' and informed her entire life was a lie, she is an elf hidden amongst humans for unknown nefarious purpose! Her human family must be killed to prevent anyone from discovering this fact. Thrown into a very catty school for gifted and talented 'elves' life only gets worse. Her foster family are an emotional wreck and worsen her situation. She is drugged, tortured and abandoned mid-way thru and adoption process. Sophie is also subject to casual sexual advances and innuendo from nearly all of her male friends; all apparently trying to manipulate her into various forms of codependent romantic relationships.
As you progress through the series Messenger starts showing the fairly disturbing pasts and present of Sophie's contemporaries, and making their lives tortuous. A lot of child abuse, child endangerment, and child abandonment take place. It feels like these stories were written at a Dropkick Murphy's concert.
