
# Brother of murdered and mutilated girl, 15, is haunted by her final moments

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:57:17+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/brother-girl-15-murdered-mutilated-20799560)

The brother of a schoolgirl who was sexually assaulted and murdered almost 25 years ago has recalled the last time he saw her alive.
Naomi Smith was just 15 when she was brutally killed at a park just 100 yards from the family home in Nuneaton, Warwickshire.
Edwin Hopkins, then 19, slit her throat, mutilated her from the waist down and bit her breast after she had stepped out to post a letter for her mother, Catherine, on the evening of September 14, 1995.
After she failed to return home, her father, Brian Smith, went looking for her and found her body under the children's slide at a playground.
 
Naomi's brother, David Freeman, last saw her alive just two days earlier when she asked him for a fiver to buy fish and chips on her way home from swimming.
He was 25 at the time.
When Naomi was murdered he was in Birmingham and got a call from his mum, who told him to come home immediately because "something's happened to Naomi".
The street was filled with police cars when he arrived home and officers gave him the devastating news that his sister was dead.
 
Mr Freeman told the Sun Online that he was "numb" and found it hard to believe.
He said: “My mum was in the house in absolute tatters.
“In the park, Brian was in absolute bits, sat on the floor near where Naomi was found, beside himself with shock and grief.
He added: “When it came out about what he (Jones) actually did to her body it was absolutely mind-blowing. Calling him an animal is too good – even an animal wouldn’t do that.”
Mr Freeman said the murder destroyed Mrs Smith, who died of cancer in 2009.
Unemployed Hopkins, who lived with his parents nearby and was fascinated with knives, was charged with murder two months later after police launched the first ever mass DNA screening.
As officers spoke to people living in the area, Hopkins had given a statement claiming he was at his sister's house at the time of the murder.
But his DNA sample matched DNA that was recovered from Naomi's body.
His teeth matched a bite mark on Naomi's body.
In January 1997, a jury found Hopkins guilty of murder after less than four hours of deliberation.
Aged 20, he was jailed the following month for life with a minimum term of 18 years before he would be considered for parole.
The sex killer has has never admitted his guilt and has been imprisoned as a Category A inmate - the highest security risk.
In August, a High Court judge ruled that Hopkins, 43, can have a full hearing relating to his bid to be moved to an open prison, an essential step towards release.
Mr Freeman and other relatives have said Hopkins should never be released from prison.
The murder is being retold in an episode of Murdertown on C&I that is due to air on Monday.
