
# Lunay Sees His Breakout Hit Descend As A Fresh Single Makes A Strong Debut

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary Suarez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/garysuarez/2019/11/06/lunay-sees-his-breakout-hit-descend-as-a-fresh-single-makes-a-strong-debut/)

“Soltera” may have given Lunay a massive profile boost, yet in the wake of the Puerto Rican artist’s recently released debut album Épico he’s swiftly proving that was no one-off. One of música urbana’s breakout stars of 2019, he scores his second highest charting single on Billboard’s Hot Latin Songs this week. A team-up with Spanish-language hitmakers Anuel AA and Ozuna, “Aventura” debuts this week at No. 11, coming in just below the chart’s top ten and a mere one spot lower than the current frame’s placement of the Daddy Yankee and Bad Bunny assisted “Soltera” (No. 10).
Lunay also has two other appearances on Hot Latin Songs this week, with his Myke Towers collab “La Cama” (No. 35) and a guest appearance on producer Dimelo Flow’s The Academy project single “El Favor” (No. 41).
While the impressive early showing for “Aventura” certainly benefits from the release of Épico, it owes this week’s entry to the song’s performance at radio and to paid downloads. The single tops Latin Airplay in its first charting appearance, with 14.3 million audience impressions garnered in the qualifying week. It also claimed the No. 1 spot on Latin Digital Song Sales.
Had the song also made an impact at streaming platforms, “Aventura” almost certainly would’ve cracked the Hot Latin Songs top ten in its opening frame. Interestingly enough, if that had happened it could have had negative consequences for “Soltera,” which after charting in the top ten for the bulk of its 34 week run is likely subject to Billboard’s recurrent rules. Nonetheless, it survives another week in the top ten, assuredly aided by consumption of the Épico LP, which takes No. 2 on Top Latin Albums.
The Hot Latin Songs top ten has a tendency towards looking fairly static, and for the most part this week is no exception. Anuel AA’s “China” continues its reign at No. 1, where it has spent 11 of the past 15 weeks, while Sech’s “Otro Trago” holds at No. 2. Bad Bunny’s months-long stranglehold of the No. 3 spot ends this week, as the Tainy-produced “Callaíta” dips to No. 4 to make room for his J Balvin collaboration “La Canción.” The duo’s guest appearance on Jhay Cortez’s “No Me Conoce” keeps it at No. 5 for another frame.
DJ Snake’s bilingual “Loco Contigo” with J Balvin and Tyga spends its twentieth week on Hot Latin Songs, holding its peak position at No. 6. Daddy Yankee’s newest hit “Que Tire Pa’ ‘Lante” rises three spots to No. 7 after debuting last week at No. 10, while his enduring “Con Calma” drops slightly to No. 8 after 40 weeks. At No. 9, Tainy’s “Adicto” remains a top ten player after ten qualifying frames.
Lurking not far below the top ten, a couple of new contenders have begun to emerge. The Black Eyed Peas’ J Balvin team-up “RITMO (Bad Boys For Life)” rises to No. 15 after only three weeks, while regional urbano sensation Natanael Cano’s “Soy El Diablo” makes its Hot Latin Songs debut at No. 16 thanks to a monumental Bad Bunny remix.
