
# Contemporary pop songstress LEON is coming to Hong Kong this December!

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Hong Kong**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/hongkong/lifestyle/contemporary-pop-songstress-leon-is-coming-to-hong-kong-this-december/)

Born Lotta Lindgren, Swedish singer LÉON has made quite the name for herself in the contemporary pop world, with her smooth vocals and melodic hooks. This is definitely a singer that’s on the come-up, having toured extensively throughout the world all 2019 across Asia, Europe, America and beyond. She’s no stranger to iconic festival stages such as Bonnaroo, Lollapalooza and Coachella either — no mean feat for any 26-year-old. 
The daughter of a cellist mother and a composer/conductor father, it certainly wouldn’t be a stretch to say that music is literally in her blood — and she’s got the receipts, too. Her hit “Tired of Talking” went viral on Soundcloud, bringing her soulful voice the worldwide attention it deserves. 
Her first full length album “LÉON” was released earlier this year to worldwide acclaim, and she’s already working on the second full length album slated for release next year. The Swedish crooner is well on her way to worldwide domination.
The show at the MOM Livehouse in Hong Kong will be one of only three stops in Asia on this tour, and tickets are already on sale, but wouldn’t it be better if you could win a pair of tickets? Well great news, ‘cause we’ve got two pairs of tickets to give away! 
So how do you score yourself a pair of tickets? To be eligible, all you have to do is join us and become a COCO+ member. COCO+ members get exclusive access to all sorts of events on top of regular perks like freebies and giveaways. It also comes with unlimited access to all the juicy goodness of Coconuts stories, along with first access to the latest Coconuts TV documentaries.
To our wonderful COCO+ members who are interested in this giveaway, simply email us at membership@coconuts.co with your full name and the subject line: “I wanna see LÉON live!”We’ll select two lucky winners to whom we’ll send an email on 29 November, 2019. Keep an eye on your inbox! If we don’t receive a response within 24 hours, we’ll have to select a new winner.
