
# 'He's The Talent Of The Century'

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:15:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/he-s-the-talent-of-the-century/666508)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp is famous for identifying young talent of his own, but the German manager has now hailed a rival club's wonderkid as the "talent of the century".

        
          Read: The 10 Biggest Wins In EPL History
        
      
The Reds recorded a penalty shootout win over Arsenal in the Carabao Cup on Wednesday, on a night Gunners starlet Garbriel Martinelli scored a brace.
The 18-year-old caused havoc behind the Liverpool defence, and was a particular thorn in the side of teenage defender Sepp van den Berg, prompting Klopp to lavish him with praise after the match.

        Click through the gallery below for to see 12 wonderkids to watch in the Premier League this season!
      
"Sepp van den Berg played an incredible game," the former Borussia Dortmund boss told Liverpool's official website.
"That's really difficult to deal with these (Arsenal) guys. Martinelli is pretty much the same age (as Van den Berg) but he's a talent of the century, he's an incredible striker, so it's really difficult.
"Then you have Mesut Ozil around and Willock right – who scored, by the way, a really nice one – so a team like Arsenal in a counter-attacking mood, we keep them deep, play around them, we lose the ball and then it's really difficult."

        
          Read: Reports: Barca & Liverpool To Do Battle Over Ferran Torres
        
      
Martinelli joined Arsenal from fourth-tier Brazilian club Ituano at the beginning of the season, and has scored seven goals in seven appearances for the Gunners since.
