
# Kanye West’s Sunday Service Brunch Is Being Compared To Fyre Festival

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:49:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/kanye-wests-sunday-service-brunch-is-being-compared-to-fyre-festival-19291333)

Attendees of “Brunchella” may have felt bamboozled, hoodwinked, and led astray. Kanye West’s latest Sunday Service concert is drawing Fyre Festival comparisons. On Friday, Nov. 1, the “Jesus Walks” rapper and his Sunday Service choir performed at Bethany Church in Baton Rouge, Louisiana to promote his newest album, Jesus is King. While admissions for the concert was free, guests were given the opportunity to opt for a $55 “Brunchella” breakfast buffet, which would raise money for the church, according to Entertainment Tonight.
Concertgoers, however, weren’t exactly satisfied with the offerings, which included some pancakes, bacon, and sausage patties on a Styrofoam plate. On social media shortly after, the comparisons between “Brunchella” and the ill-fated Fyre Festival poured in with the hashtag #YeezyFyreFestival following suit. In a Facebook post shared on Twitter, one concertgoer wrote alongside a photo of her meal, “This is the wonderful & COLD brunch BUFFET we are being served by Boil & Roux Br. & the server looked at me crazy when I asked for another pancake.”
Elsewhere, one Twitter user invoked another infamous food offering and wrote, “Kanye West’s $55 Brunchella meal is making the Fyre Fest sandwich look good.” Another Twitter user referenced the language in Fyre Fest co-founder Ja Rule’s viral “bamboozled” tweet and wrote, “Kanye charging $55 for fake bacon, pale sausage and pancakes dry as a Popeye's biscuit?! Ye fans out here gettin' BAMBOOZLED!”
