
# Beautiful girl, 4, receives 'terrible diagnosis'

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:43:21+00:00**

Author: **Molly Dowrick**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/beautiful-girl-4-receives-terrible-3494191)

A crowdfunder campaign has been launched online to raise money for the family of a four-year-old who was diagnosed with an aggressive brain tumour just two weeks ago.
Savannah Godward, from Ivybridge, has received a 'terrible diagnosis,' say family friends, of an 'aggressive cancerous brain tumour' and needs specialist medical care and treatment from Bristol Hospital.
With the awful diagnosis, as well as the 'added pressure' of the costs of travelling to the hospital and having to find accommodation for the family in Bristol, 'this is not a time for this family to have to consider anything money wise'.
So family friends Jodie and Keira, on behalf of their local community and 'a lot of other people', have set up a crowdfunder to raise as much money as possible for the Godward family.
Keira told Plymouth Live that Savannah's school, Manor Primary School in Ivybridge, held a pyjama day at school on Thursday, with all funds raised going to the Godwards, while a sponsored 'beard shave' and fundraising gig have been arranged for later this month to help raise much-needed funds for the family. 
The crowdfunder says: "Savannah Godward has received a terrible diagnosis of an aggressive cancerous brain tumour. Details on treatment are yet to be confirmed – Bristol Hospital will do all they can, but it is aggressive and next steps and how long for whatever is simply an unknown.
"'Nana' is four, she has recently started Manor Primary in Foundation. She is a beautiful girl with lots of friends and it's heart-breaking that this is happening to her and all of her family.
"Everyone wants to help and that is where YOU come in,
"This is not a time for this family to have to consider anything money wise. At this time, they are of course not working, but things still have to be paid, with also added pressure of family hotels when they are all up in Bristol supporting Nana.
"They also need the financial freedom to do some amazing things and trips when they are allowed to leave Bristol Hospital.
"Please donate anything you can to help support this family.
Matt, Lucy, Leon, Conner, Reuben, Ebony, Paige, and Nana herself need us all as a community to support them – please donate anything you can, any couple of pounds will support them all."
To donate to the family, or for more information, visit the JustGiving site here .
