
# Why Lululemon’s Direct-To-Consumer Segment Is Key To Its Growth

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/07/why-lululemons-direct-to-consumer-segment-is-key-to-its-growth/)

Lululemon Athletica Inc. (NASDAQ: LULU), the Canadian athletic apparel retailer, is one of the fastest-growing apparel companies in the world. The company’s healthy lifestyle-inspired athletic apparel and accessories have helped the company achieve strong growth over the last few years. Moreover, this growth has been aided by new store-openings and a steady increase in comparable-store sales as well as e-commerce sales across the U.S. and Canada. While the company’s retail business has flourished, Lululemon’s Direct-To-Consumer segment has been the single largest contributor to growth over recent years. Trefis highlights the importance of its DTC segment to Lululemon in an interactive dashboard, and also details why the segment will remain key to growth in Lululemon’s valuation over coming years. 

        What Is The Importance Of DTC Segment To Lululemon?
      

        
          #1 DTC Segment Contributes More Than 25% Of Lululemon’s Revenues
        
      

        
          #2 Lululemon’s DTC Segment Has Outpaced Growth In Lululemon’s Total Revenues In Each Of The Last 3 Years
        
      
 #3 Moreover, Lululemon’s DTC Segment Has Continued To Grow At A Higher Pace Than That Of Competitors’
Additional details about how DTC segment revenues for Under Armour and Nike compare with Lululemon’s are available in our interactive dashboard.
 

        
          #4 Finally, the DTC Segment Has Been Operating At A Higher Margin Too
        
      
 

        Conclusion
      
 
Starting with our forecast for Lululemon’s revenues as detailed above, we estimate the company’s adjusted EPS for full-year 2019 is to be around $4.63. Using this figure with our estimated forward P/E ratio of 45x, this works out to a price estimate of $209 for Lululemon’s stock
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
