
# Man Utd special edition shirt to celebrate Chinese New Year leaked

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:55:36+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-special-edition-shirt-20800597)

Manchester United are set to launch an outlandish shirt to commemorate Chinese New Year.
The first pictures of the eccentric kit have been leaked by FootyHeadlines.com , with the limited edition item set to go on sale nearer the Chinese New Year on January 25.
But the shirt is not set to be worn by Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side in an official match, instead being sold through the Adidas store.
The shirt fits the same template as the controversial Adidas x EA Sports shirts released last year which also featured in FIFA 19 but were not worn in real life.
This time, the limited edition kit includes a black v-neck collar with a gold United badge centrally located and outlandish Chinese dragons printed all over the red shirt.
It is said to be part of a wider range, also including a pair of trousers shown in the leaked images with more items to mark Chinese New Year potentially set to be unveiled at a later date.
The report also claims Arsenal , Bayern Munich, Juventus and Real Madrid will launch similar clothing items to celebrate the event.
United have already opted for an eccentric snakeskin away kit this season, with the Adidas kit dividing opinion.
There have been mixed responses at best to the Chinese New Year shirt, which is certainly eye-catching, although those who are not a fan can take comfort in the fact it will not be seen on the pitch.
