
# What’s the Best Tea for Sleep? 7 Recipes to Try Tonight

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:00:02+00:00**

Author: **Bijal Panchal**

Original: [Lifehack](https://www.lifehack.org/851858/best-tea-for-sleep)

A good night’s sleep is essential for your health. But our current lifestyles are not really designed to encourage healthy sleep habits. There’s the constant hustle, stress, late night work on projects, and unhealthy food and drinking habits. All of these combine to give you consistently poor quality of sleep, an even difficulty falling asleep in the first place.
Research shows that about 60 million Americans suffer from insomnia. And this lack of sleep is the cause of 5% of all cases of obesity in adults.[1] It is also a leading cause for depression and anxiety among adults and teenagers alike.
So how do you avoid all this? How do you make sure you get a good night sleep every night?
Well, the first step is obviously falling asleep and we’ve found just the right thing to help you with that — Tea.
The simple act of boiling certain herbs or flowers in hot water for their calming effects has been around for centuries. Ingredients like chamomile, lavender, and valerian are said to have sedative properties which help the body relax and induces sleep. And even though there is no definitive evidence of the effectiveness of teas, there are a lot of personal accounts where people have found herbal teas to be helpful in falling asleep.
What say you test out that theory for yourself? Here are 7 recipes of the best tea for sleep:
This tea is mostly used since ancient times as a sleeping aid. It is well known remedy for insomnia. This tea works by restorative the brain cells to produce more of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a chemical which is responsible for soothing nerves and relieving anxiety.

        Benefits of Valerian Tea
      

        Ingredients and Recipe
      

        Directions
      
Place a valerian tea bag or a tea infuser containing about one tablespoon of loose tea leaves in a teacup. You can also simply place loose tea leaves at the bottom of a cup.
This is the perfect mixture for bedtime and anti-stress beverage as the name of it suggests. You can add milk/honey as well. This tea is from Plum Deluxe. They also have a very cool club to help you save on tea.

        Benefits of Cuddle Time Tea
      

        Ingredients Required
      

        Directions
      
This sounds like absolute heavenly. Cinnamon is high in cinnamaldehyde, which is what is responsible for most of the health benefits that come from cinnamon. Cinnamon can also help you fall asleep at night. It will also take care of your body’s digestion and help you achieve a restful sleep.

        Benefits of the Cinnamon Sleep Toni
      

        Ingredients
      

        Directions
      
It is the most famous herbal teas in the world.There are 2 varieties in this tea i.e German and English varieties. German chamomile is believed to be particularly useful in fighting sleeplessness. It has daisy-like flowers which are used to make tea and herbal supplements. This herbal tea helps you to calm and relieve anxiety and stress.

        Benefits of the Chamomile Herbal Tea
      

        Ingredients
      

        Directions/How to prepare it
      
Moonrise Herbs was established in Arcata, California, in 1985 with a mission to be an outlet for beautifully vibrant, high-quality herbs and tea blends, along with a variety of tinctures, extracts, essential oils, supplements and natural body care products.

        Benefits of Moonrise Herbal Tea Blend
      

        Ingredients
      

        Directions
      
This seems like a formula/recipe for a lip balm, but actually it’s not. It is one of the most powerful teas for people suffering from insomnia. This tea also helps to reduce stress, indigestion, anxiety, enhance sleep and can help heal cold sores faster. Lemon balm tea is a standard herb for insomnia and when it is combined with other herbs such as Chamomile and Valerian, it can give you off better sleep-inducing properties.

        Benefits of Lemon Balm Tea
      

        Ingredients
      

        Directions
      
The smell of lavender is very bad, but its medicinal properties are awesome. Only one cup of lavender tea can facilitate your body, brain, and help you nod off. It can likewise be utilized as a wash on the chest to help facilitate the impacts of bronchitis, asthma and colds. It can likewise help lessen hack and help with other respiratory issues. Lavender works extraordinary for both youngsters and adults and is a lot safer than over the counter prescriptions. It can help diminish fevers, recuperate wounds, cuts, and bruises.

        ​Benefits of Lavender Tea
      

        Ingredients
      

        Directions
      
Falling asleep isn’t easy with the stressful life we lead today. I hope with these 7 herbal tea recipes you’ll be able to sleep better and relieve some stress.

        [1] ^ NPR: Can’t Sleep? Neither Can 60 Million Other Americans
        [2] ^ TeaFloor: Best Bedtime Drinks (Teas that help you sleep)
      
