
# Katie Price confesses she's 'never the boss' of her unruly kids as Jett vows to behave badly

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:01:29+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/katie-price-confesses-shes-never-20813342)

Katie Price admitted she struggles to keep her kids in order.
The mother-of-five, 41, confessed she has never been the "boss" of her children in a candid Instagram video uploaded on the social media site on Monday.
In the clip, the former glamour model asked if her two youngest Jett and Bunny were going to be well behaved for the day they spent with her.
Jett had no qualms sharing his plans he was going to be naughty with a shake of his head.
Bunny, however, claimed she was going to be good for her mum - much to Katie's surprise.
Katie asked: "Are you going to be good today kids?"
"Yah!" Bunny said. To which Katie responded with a laugh and the word: "What?"
The businesswoman captioned the clip "I'm never the boss lol" as she shrugged off her responsibilities. (sic)
Katie looped in her 2.1million fans on Instagram as she continued to give glimpses into her parenting her children.
Her ex-husband Kieran Hayler was delighted to pick up their two kids from hers later in the day.
Kieran posted a shirtless snap cuddled up to his son Jett in bed.
He wrote: "Got my babies back." Kieran added a heart emoji to the Instagram story he shared on Monday evening.
As well as Bunny and Jett, the reality star is the mother to Princess and Junior whom she shares with ex-husband Peter Andre.
Katie also raises her eldest son Harvey among her brood of five children.
