
# RBI doesn’t relent, chiefs of private banks need to retire at 70

Published at: **2019-11-02T02:00:16+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/rbi-doesnt-relent-chiefs-of-pvt-banks-need-to-retire-at-70/articleshow/71860918.cms)

MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India has refused to relent on its guidelines requiring chief executives of private banks to mandatorily retire at the age of 70, setting the stage for Aditya Puri to step down as HDFC Bank managing director and CEO next October, while Romesh Sobti will retire as IndusInd Bank chief at the end of the financial year.
While bankers had been indicating that the regulator was reviewing the retirement age, sources said, a few months ago RBI conveyed its decision to the two banks where the incumbents were nearing the retirement age, with many expecting a fresh extension.
Some bankers had raised the issue of bringing RBI’s rules on a par with the new Companies Act that allows CEOs to continue till the age of 75. But RBI is of the view that 70 years is a reasonable age for a private bank chief to hang his boots as banking is a high-pressure job, sources told TOI. “It is not like a minister’s job, where he is assisted by a team of officials,” said a source.
RBI has already conveyed this to boards of banks that decide on a CEO. Sobti is set to retire in March 2020. It was earlier speculated that the board would seek an extension for Sobti. On Thursday, the bank said that the board has finalised a candidate for the post of MD and an application has been forwarded to the central bank. This followed a meeting of the nomination and remuneration committee of the board on Wednesday.
HDFC Bank recently appointed Sashidhar Jagdishan as a change agent and assigned him several important portfolios of the bank. Paresh Sukthankar, who held the number two position in the bank for several years had quit last year.
