
# YouTube Premium and Music expand to seven new regions in Asia

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:22:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/youtube-premium-and-music-has-now-expanded-seven-new-regions-asia?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Joe Maring / Android Central
      
Google is continuing its expansion of YouTube Premium and Music this month by adding seven new regions in Asia. That's one less than its last expansion back in September when eight new countries joined the list — making the service available in over 70 countries in total.
This month's expansion adds some of Asia's most prominent locations, including Indonesia which is the fourth most populated country in the world. To put that in perspective, the U.S. is currently ranked third, making Indonesia a prime new market for YouTube revenue. The full list of new locations can be found below.
If you're in one of these new locations and wondering what YouTube Premium and Music has to offer you, then listen up. With YouTube Premium, you get ad-free videos with the option to watch offline and you can even play videos in the background with other apps opened or when the screen is locked.
YouTube Music gives you much of the same with the ability to listen to ad-free music, download tracks for listening offline, or background playback. The price will vary from region to region, but Android Police shows that in the Philippines the current price for YouTube Premium is 159 PHP ($3.14 USD) a month and 129 PHP ($2.55 USD) for YouTube Music.
Ad-free videos
With YouTube Premium, you get access to YouTube videos ad-free, offline, and even an option for background playback. You'll also be able to access all of what YouTube Music has to offer.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
