
# Who will win Lazio vs Celtic? Our writers give their predictions for the Europa League clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:14:11+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/who-win-lazio-vs-celtic-20825220)

The Europa League knockout stage is within touching distance for Celtic but they must overcome Lazio in their own backyard to get there.
Neil Lennon 's side sit top of Group G and can eliminate the Serie A giants with victory in the Stadio Olimpico.
And, if results elsewhere go their way, can book their place in the last 32.
But the Hoops have never triumphed on Italian soil and Simone Inzaghi's side will have revenge on their minds after being stunned by a late Christopher Jullien winner a fortnight ago.
Here's how Record Sport's writers have called the big one in Rome.
Celtic will be up against it in Rome against a powerful Lazio side which might still be wondering how it managed to leave Glasgow with nothing from the first leg. A point in Italy would represent another massive result for Neil Lennon and his players. It can be done but it’s probably the best they can hope for.

        Lazio 2 Celtic 2
      
Celtic are going to find it tough against a fired-up Lazio side. Neil Lennon’s men are unbeaten in five matches away from home in Europe this term, but Rome offers the biggest challenge yet against a host side who simply have to win to stay in the qualification mix.

        Lazio 2 Celtic 0
      

         
      
Celtic will be edged out in a cracker at the Stadio Olimpico. Neil Lennon's side will get some joy on the counter attack with the threat of Forrest, Elyounoussi and Edouard. But Lazio will be out for revenge and showed enough in Glasgow to suggest they'll cause the Hoops problems going forward. Simone Inzaghi's side desperately need a win in the group and they should have enough about them to get it.

        Lazio 3 Celtic 2
      
The Hoops can put one foot in the last 32 with a first-ever victory over Italian opposition in Italy but this match will be a step too far. Beating Simone Inzaghi's side in Glasgow was an outstanding achievement and should ultimately prove to be enough to see Celtic progress next month. But Neil Lennon's side will be made to wait by the Serie A side who are on a hot streak of form domestically and gunning for revenge.

        Lazio 2 Celtic 0
      
Celtic have never won in Italy before but this is the time Neil Lennon's men end that run. Despite falling behind at Celtic Park, they fought back to beat Lazio deservedly and Fraser Forster proved his worth again. Odsonne Edouard has gone two games without a goal but it's not very often he goes three and he'll be determined to fire his team to a win. A nervy night but a win in the end for Celtic.

        Lazio 1 Celtic 2
      

         
      
We may well witness an even more menacing Lazio side at the Stadio Olimpico than the one we watched in Glasgow. Current form at home would certainly suggest this. And speaking of form, Simone Inzaghi’s side have racked up three Serie A wins in a row although don’t read too much into their victory over Milan. The Rossoneri aren’t all that these days. Still, Celtic are going to have their work cut out but somewhere in Rome an Italian journalist will be writing the same thing about Lazio. Make no mistake, they respect Celtic and the Scottish champions will score and grab a fantastic draw.

        Lazio 1 Celtic 1
      
This has all the makings of a classic. Lazio are a side built to score goals while Celtic stuck steadfastly to their own attacking principles in the reverse fixture, even as the Italians threatened, yet failed, to put them to the sword. The 1-1 draw in Rennes on match day one showed Lennon has the nous to navigate these big away days in a manner that keeps fans glued to the screen rather than hiding behind the couch. The Stadio Olimpico is a step up but one this Celtic side are now well-equipped to handle. They'll leave Rome with a result that puts them on the brink of the last 32.

        Lazio 2 Celtic 2
      

         
      
