
# Amazon slash price of beauty advent calendars in flash sale

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:03:38+00:00**

Author: **Chantelle Symester, https://www.facebook.com/csymester/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/style/shopping/amazon-slash-price-beauty-advent-20787903)

Beauty advent calendars are now big news for Christmas - and for a limited time Amazon is slashing the price of selected ones in its latest flash sale.
The online retail giant is rolling out price cuts on top branded versions from Rituals, Nivea, Lynx and Dove.
The Rituals 2D Christmas Tree advent calendar , normally costs 59.90 and contains items worth £118.45. But Amazon shoppers can save £10 off and get it for £49.90 instead - the cheapest price we have found online.
The Nivea beauty advent calendar offers even bigger savings, with 28% off the original £40 price tag.
Shoppers can pick one up for £28.99 and get free delivery too.
 
The retailer has also slashed the price of its own beauty advent calendar too .
The £50 calendar is filled with make up and skincare goodies worth a whopping £220 but in the sale is £10 cheaper - a saving of 20% off for shoppers looking to bag one before December arrives.
 
Below is a breakdown of exactly what is inside each calendar.
 

        Price: £40 (was £50) - buy here on Amazon
      

        Price: £49.90 (was £59.90) - buy here on Amazon
      
 

        Price: £28.99 (was £40) - buy here on Amazon
      
Check out our guide to all the best beauty advent calendars are out there for 2019 .
The list includes M&S' newly launched calendar, Cult Beauty's first ever advent and Harrods super luxe one which will set you back £250!
