
# NowTV is selling a two-month Sky Sports pass for £2

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:53+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hurrell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/nowtv-selling-two-month-sky-17189445)

Sport fans who want to tune in to Sky Sports usually have to pay a hefty monthly fee to access all of the channels.
In the run up the Sky's Black Friday sale the company has already reduced the price of Sky TV and added Netflix free but deals on sports packages have not been released.
However, Sky's streaming service NowTV has launched an early Black Friday deal with a massive discount on sports channels including Sky Sports and Sky Sports News.
NowTV is selling a two-month Sky Sports pass for just £1 a month - meaning the total cost from now until the end of 2019 will be £2. Fans can then cancel before the usual £5.99 monthly fee comes in.
There is one catch on the deal - it applies only to Sky Sports mobile pass which means you can only watch the channels on mobile and tablet devices. However, it is a cheap way to catch the latest games without shelling out for a full Sky Sports subscription.
 
Fans who sign up for the deal can watch the likes of Watford vs Chelsea on Sky Sports on Saturday afternoon, as well as all Sunday football games including Spurs' visit to Everton.
Next week will see a top of the table clash between Liverpool and Manchester City on Sky Sports. Local fans will also be able to tune in to Aston Villa's visit to Wolves on 10 November, as well as Newcastle's visit to Villa Park at the end of November.
It also includes access to other sporting events such as international fixtures and the USA Grand Prix in F1 on Sunday 3 November.
The deal, which was spotted by users of deals website HotUKDeals , expires on 7 November so sport fans will have to move quickly to take advantage of the offer.
