
# Third-Party ESG Ratings Too Simplistic, Backwards Looking For Investors, SEC Told

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ted Knutson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tedknutson/2019/11/07/third-party-esg-ratings-too-simplistic-backwards-looking-for-investors-sec-told/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Third-party ratings of companies on ESG (Environmental Social and Governance) standards are too simplistic and backwards looking to be useful for investors, the Securities and Exchange Commission was told today by large asset managers.The caveat was made by officials from AllianceBernstein and Neuberger Berman at a meeting of the SEC’s Investor Advisory Committee.
They were joined by representatives from State Street Global Advisors and Calvert Research and Management charging current corporate ESG disclosures lack consistency and standardization while relying heavily on boilerplate.
The State Street, Calvert, AllianceBernstein and Neuberger Berman executives were also unified in the assertion ESG investing is about increasing long term value.
Alliance Bernstein Global ESG Manager Michelle Dunstan told the panel her firm is incorporating ESG in all of its portfolios.
From institutional investors to high net worth individuals, clients are demanding it, said Dunstan.
She claimed there are a lot of discrepancies in the way companies report ESG data.
The SEC can take lead in making it better, she urged.
To get more useful information than is in the voluntary corporate reports Dunstan said AllianceBernstein analysts are aggressively engaging with companies, including meeting with boards.
She added they’re looking at ESG issues from climate change to modern slavery.
Neuberger Berman Head ESG Investing Head Jonathan Bailey said the company’s clients are better informed than they were three to five years ago when they ask ESG questions.
He noted different analysts at the firm can view the same ESG information for the same company differently.
As an example, he noted an analyst looking at a firm’s bonds may take a different approach to ESG than a Neuberger analyst giving an opinion on a business’s stock.
Calvert Research and Management Director of ESG Investment Research Jessica Milano noted 8% of S&P 500 companies offer ESG reports but not all of it is relevant.
Firms that give high amount material ESG information have high performance while firms that provide a high amount of low material ESG information have low returns, the Calvert official claimed.
At the session, SEC Democratic Commissioner Allison Lee said investors are telling her they see ESG investing as a commonsense approach to long term value building.
In written remarks to the gathering, SEC Chairman Jay Clayton indicated some unease with ESG.
“The approach to investment analysis appears to vary widely, in some cases incorporating objectives other than investment performance over a particular time frame or frames,” said Clayton.
