
# Family of six 'living daily nightmare' stuck in one filthy room in shared house

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:14:12+00:00**

Author: **Tristan Cork**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/family-six-living-daily-nightmare-20793416)

A family of six say they are 'living a daily nightmare', forced to stay in one filthy room of a shared house.
Craig Simmonds and Roxanne Stamford, who have one disabled child and a young baby, are bringing up their family in the tiny room - which had blood stains on the bedding and mice droppings on the carpet.
The couple told to Bristol Live they had to threaten Bristol City Council with an emergency court injunction just to get a room for the night.
The family said they have fallen into the gaps, with two local authorities - Bristol and Cornwall Council - both attempting to deny they are responsible for housing them.
Over the last few months, they say they have been moved around constantly, from a caravan in Cornwall to hotels and temporary accommodation until they ended up in a House of Multiple Occupancy in Southville, Bristol.
Craig and Roxanne arrived at the room in Southville in the middle of October, after four days in an emergency tourist holiday let AirBnB in the city centre.
They found the accommodation had a double bed and a bunk bed.
The bedding was blood-stained, the room and the tiny en-suite shower-room was filthy, with mouse droppings evident and a dirty carpet, toilet and cooking area.
The next day, after sending images of the state of the place to Bristol City Council, an emergency ‘deep clean’ was arranged.
 
And there, the family of six have remained, waiting in limbo while two local authorities 170 miles apart argue the other is responsible for housing them.
The couple’s ordeal began last year when Roxanne suffered from serious post-natal depression and other mental health issues following the birth of her youngest child, Aimee.
Roxanne and Craig lived in Cornwall, where Craig worked long hours as a chef.
Roxanne’s illness meant he kept having to take time off work to care for her and his children, and so he lost his job, and the couple fell into rent arrears on their council house in Camborne.
They were eventually evicted by Cornwall Council on May 1 this year, and have not had a permanent home since.
Craig is born and bred in Bristol.
When he was nine, escaping an abusive relationship, his mum moved the family to Cornwall, where he then lived.
He grew up, met Roxanne, started a family and his mum Lou was a huge help as the couple - at that point - had three children, Catelynn, Freddie and Harry.
Freddie, particularly, needed more help - he has a range of special needs, including cerebral palsy, and has to have his legs rubbed vigorously after any exercise.
But three years ago, Lou ‘retired’ back to her native South Bristol, moving into an over-55s flat in Stockwood, and when Aimee arrived last year, Craig and Roxanne struggled on their own.
So when they were evicted by Cornwall Council on May 1, the couple didn’t know where else to go, but to put all their belongings into a family member’s car, and drive up the M5 to Bristol.
“I didn’t want the kids to see the bailiffs actually come and chuck us out, I couldn’t bear that to happen,” said Roxanne, who is pregnant.
“So I left the keys with a neighbour and we left the day before, on April 30, before the bailiffs came.”
They squeezed in to Lou’s flat for a couple of nights, and presented themselves at 100 Temple Street, Bristol City Council’s housing department headquarters.
 
The couple were put into a three-bed house, albeit temporarily, in Bedminster.
The three older children were enrolled into their local primary school and as a skilled chef, Craig got a job quickly at a local pub.
“Everything was sorted, or seemed to be,” said Craig.
“The school was amazing, the kids settled in really well, they loved going to school, and I got a job. The house was nice, and I thought we would be ok.”
But behind the scenes, it appears a conflict was brewing between Bristol City Council and Cornwall Council.
As the family went through the process of applying for more permanent housing, they were told there was a problem.
Craig’s ‘local links’ didn’t meet the criteria. He hadn’t been an adult in Bristol. He and his family hadn’t lived in Bristol for more than six months.
 His family link to his mum didn’t count either - any family member has to have lived in Bristol for five years for that to count, and Lou only moved back to the city three years ago.
Bristol is a city still in the grips of a housing crisis, despite new homes being built in their hundreds.
There are 12,000 people on the housing waiting list, and 500 families in temporary accommodation.
As the summer began, the family were told they would have to go back to Cornwall, and present themselves as homeless there, not in Bristol.
It was Harry’s sixth birthday, the day the children were taken out of Parson Street School and driven back down the M5 to be put into a single room in a shared house in Newquay.
“It was awful. At 4am there were people drunk or on drugs, banging on the door, shouting they were going to kill us. The children were terrified,” said Craig.
 
Cornwall Council kept moving them around places like that, including for a spell, into a caravan.
By mid-August, the new school year was looming and Roxanne was desperate to provide some stability for her children.
“Trying to get the kids into school was an absolute nightmare. Cornwall Council told us they would have to go to school, but allocated the three of them three different schools, which was just impossible,” said Craig.
Then, Craig said Cornwall Council told them their efforts to find them a home had failed, and hit them with another bombshell.
“They told us we had made ourselves intentionally homeless, because we left the day before the bailiffs came,” Roxanne said, as she fought back the tears.
“They told us that there was nothing more they could do, and we would have to find our own privately rented accommodation, and pay for it with our housing benefit.
“I spent weeks searching for somewhere to live. It was impossible. We didn’t have a guarantor.
"There is absolutely nowhere in Cornwall that will take a family of six on benefits in private rented accommodation,” she said.
 
The day came - October 11 - when Cornwall Council’s temporary accommodation ended, and the family were out on the streets again.
For the second time, they made the trip back up the M5.
On Monday, October 14, they presented themselves again at 100 Temple Street, and were told that,  Bristol City Council had no duty to house them, they were Cornwall’s problem.
In desperation the kids about to leave school and with nowhere to stay that night, they went to the offices of homeless charity Shelter.
Shocked officials there immediately summoned their legal department, and a stiff request threatening an emergency court appeal meant that Bristol City Council’s housing staff accepted that they could not, after all, leave a family of six, with four children under the age of eight, including a baby, on the streets.
A housing officer used a corporate credit card to book an AirBnB.
 
They were told they would be staying three nights, and again on Thursday morning, were waiting at the council offices to be told where to go next.
Finding them a place to live appears to have been handed over to Connolly & Callaghan, which runs a huge number of temporary accommodation units in Bristol.
C&C initially told them to go to a two-bed flat in Fishponds, but then told them it was flooded. After telling C&C that their children’s school was in Bedminster, they were sent to a room in an HMO in Southville.
“We arrived and the front door was open, the door to the room was open and we were told this was it,” said Roxanne.
“There was blood stains on the bed. The kids walked in and sat down on the floor and I looked at the floor and it was filthy,” she added.
“The state of the little bathroom was worse - one of my kids looked at it and refused to go in it - we go to Asda when he needs the loo.”
The family have applied to be accepted onto the waiting list in Bristol.
A school support worker accompanied them to the room in Southville when they first arrived.
“The condition of the room is totally unacceptable for anyone to live in,” she said.
“Mould and damp all over the walls, bathroom, shower filthy, fridge with no shelves in, bloodstains on the bedding, rat or mice droppings in the corner and no lock on the door.
“The effect this is having on the family is truly telling,” she told council chiefs.
“Mum is struggling to maintain stability with her mental health, dad is unable to take the job he has set up for himself and he feels that he is letting his family down and is extremely emotional about this.
“The three children are scared of the new room due to the awful conditions,” she wrote, adding that the children all fell asleep in school that day.
“We are extremely concerned for the welfare of this family.
"They need a secure base in the Bedminster area so they can begin to build a new life for themselves,” she added.
Roxanne’s midwife - she’s still registered down in Cornwall because she has no permanent address yet in Bristol - has also written to housing chiefs demanding better treatment.
C&C offered a bigger, two-room flat - the one that had been flooded before - and that presented the family with a terrible choice.
“We had to choose between somewhere a bit bigger, but somewhere we didn’t know the condition of, and moving somewhere on the other side of the city,” said Craig.
“It would be three hours there and back on the bus to school for the kids, and for me to work. I got my job now, and I’m just trying to do the best I can to support my family.
“So we had to choose between staying here in this tiny room which at least means the kids can stay in school and I can work, and moving yet again, and probably moving again after that. It was hard, but we chose to stay,” he added.
And there, Craig and Roxanne remain, for the past two weeks.
Bristol Live has contacted Bristol City Council numerous times over this case for the past two weeks, but has not received a formal response.
