
# What’s going on Friday?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/whats-going-on-friday-190/)

You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
Marc Almond (performing Soft Cell), Hercules and Love Affair, Amanda Lepore, Katie Rex, Blu Anxxiety, Matthew Pernicano, Nikki Sneakers @ Brooklyn BazaarLA party Sex Cells comes to Brooklyn tonight for a full night of goth, dance, and more (the first set is at 8 PM and the last is at 2:45 AM), and most excitingly of all, Soft Cell singer Marc Almond will perform the music of Soft Cell at his 10:20 PM set. He hasn’t done this in NYC in a very long time, and who knows if or when he ever will again.
Dead & Company @ Madison Square GardenDead & Company, featuring classic Grateful Dead members Bob Weir, Mickey Hart, and Bill Kreutzmann alongside John Mayer, Oteil Burbridge, and Jeff Chiment, wrap up their two-night stand at MSG tonight. After these dates, they’ll head back to the area next week for two dates at Nassau Coliseum
Big Freedia, Mykki Blanco @ Brooklyn BowlBounce queen Big Freedia brings the party to Brooklyn Bowl for the second night in a row with excellent support from Mykki Blanco.
Chelsea Wolfe, Ioanna Gika @ Brooklyn SteelChelsea Wolfe released her very good new album Birth of Violence earlier this year, and it’s an acoustic album, but it’s no less grand than her other recent wor
108, Racetraitor, Miracle Drug, High Disciple @ Saint VitusKrishnacore vets 108 are playing two special NYC shows this weekend to celebrate the 25th anniversary of their 1994 sophomore album Songs of Separation. They’ve got killer support at both shows too. Both nights have reunited hardcore band Racetraitor (who released their first new album in 20 years last year), and tonight also has Louisville’s Miracle Drug (members of Mouthpiece, Supertouch, C.R., By The Grace Of God) and NJ’s High Disciple (members of 108, Texas is the Reason, Jets to Brazil, Lifetime).
Michael Stipe: A Visual Record @ New York Public LibraryWhile the former R.E.M. frontman has launched a solo career, tonight he’s talking about his new art book Our Interference Times which he made with old friend and Generation X author Douglas Coupland (he’ll be there tonight as well).
The KVB, Numb.er, Devon Church @ Baby’s All RightUK duo The KVB have been around since 2010, trafficking in moody, motoroik krautrock/synthwave descended from Suicide, 4AD goth, and Spacemen 3. The band are now signed to Invada Records, the label run by Geoff Barrow of Portishead/Beak>, which is the perfect place for them.
David Byrne’s American Utopia @ Hudson TheatreDavid Byrne has retooled his acclaimed “untethered” 2018 for the Broadway stage and while the setlist and arrangements are much like what they were on his tour, songs are now threaded together with new monologues from Byrne, making for a much more theatrical experience.
The Original Robert Glasper Experiment @ Blue Note (two shows)Robert Glasper is on the final run of shows in his month-long Blue Note Jazz Club residency, which will find him playing with The Original Robert Glasper Experiment (Glasper, Derrick Hodge, Chris Dave, Casey Benjamin) through November 3. Glasper has already had a bunch of cool surprise guests join him at this residency… will anyone show up tonight?
King Princess, Girlpool @ Terminal 5Alt-pop singer King Princess has had a busy year. She sang on one of the catchiest songs on Mark Ronson’s new album, and then she released her own debut album Cheap Queen just last week. Now she’s on tour with indie rock duo Girlpool, and playing big NYC shows at Terminal 5 tonight and tomorrow.
Allegaeon, Inferi, Paladin @ The KingslandColorado melodic progressive tech-death metal band Allegaeon are riding high on the critical acclaim of Apoptosis, their fifth full length album which is out now on Metal Blade. They’re on tour now with the likeminded Inferi (from Nashville) and the Prosthetic-signed Paladin (from Atlanta) and hitting Brooklyn tonight.
Black Moon @ S.O.B.’sBrooklyn rep vets Black Moon recently returned with their new album Rise of Da Moon, which finds them doing what they do best (guests include Method Man, Smif-N-Wessun, Tek, and more). Tonight’s the hometown NYC release show.
Lee Ranaldo, Leila Bordreuil, Stephan Moore, Asha Sheshadri, The New York Review of Cocksucking @ Issue Project RoomISSUE Project Room calls this “an expansive gathering of NYC artists working across disciplines” and includes Sonic Youth’s Lee Ranaldo collaborating with cellist Leila Bordreuil.
Dave Harrington’s Merry Pranksters @ Nublu 151Darkside’s Dave Harrington brings together a constantly evolving but always supremely talented group of Merry Pranksters. Tonight’s late-night show includes Stuart Bogie, Shahzad Ismaily, Kenny Wollesen, and more…. plus “VERY Special Guests.”
Mike Doughty (plays Soul Coughing’s Ruby Vroom) @ Rough TradeMike Doughty will perform his old band’s classic 1994 debut in full.
Carmen Christopher, Conner O’Malley @ Union HallCarmen Christopher (HBO, Comedy Central) & Conner O’Malley (Late Night with Seth Meyers) bring you “some new goddamn good material.”
John Zorn (New Masada Quartet), Julian Lage, Jorge Roeder, Kenny Wollesen @ Village Vanguard (2 shows)John Zorn, with much help from Julian Lage (guitar), Jorge Roeder (bass) and Kenny Wollesen (drums), aims to “put Ornette Coleman and the Jewish scales together” as the New Masada Quartet.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
For laughs, check out the NYC Comedy calendar too.
————-—
Follow @BrooklynVegan on Twitter.Follow @bvChicago for just Chicago stuff.Also follow @bvAustin for just Austin stuff.
Be our friend on Facebook too, and BV Austin’s friend on Facebook and BV Chicago’s friend on Facebook.
Follow BrooklynVegan on instagram.
What else?
——————-
Browse our ‘Tickets On Sale‘ tag for more recently announced NYC shows.
Browse our NYC Concert Calendar for shows happening today and every day – comedy shows, heavy metal concerts (courtesy of our heavy metal blog), and free shows included.
