
# Robbie Savage's Premier League predictions as Arsenal and Tottenham's woes continue

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:27:20+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/robbie-savages-premier-league-predictions-20786819)

Robbie Savage has predicted that Arsenal's Premier League form will face another blip as they host Wolves on Saturday.
The Gunners have won just one of their last four league matches, and threw away a two-goal lead against Crystal Palace last week.
And Savage feels it could well happen again, against a Wolves side who have lost just once on their travels this season.
Arsenal's rivals Tottenham have suffered worse fate than their north London neighbour, having won only two of their previous nine matches in all competitions.
They come up against an Everton side in similar peril, with the Toffees teetering precariously above the drop zone.
No team in the top flight faces a bigger week than Southampton however, with the Saints coming off the back of last week's 9-0 thrashing at the hands of Leicester .
They were beaten in Carabao Cup action by Man City in midweek, and have the difficult task of trying to contain them for the second time in a matter of days at the Etihad.
With City odds-on to pick up a win, added pressure is on Liverpool to maintain their six-point lead in the table.
The Reds have a tricky trip to Aston Villa to overcome, with the hosts unbeaten in their last four at home.
Meanwhile Man Utd travel south as they bid to string a run of results together in Saturday's 12:30pm kick-off.
The Red Devils have won all three of their matches since drawing with Liverpool a fortnight ago, but meet Bournemouth who have lost just once at the Vitality Stadium this season.
In Saturday's other televised pick Chelsea head to basement club Watford , while Leicester are in action on the box at Selhurst Park on Sunday at 2pm.
Elsewhere relegation battlers Norwich and Newcastle are both away from home, with ties at Brighton and West Ham respectively.
Here's how Sav sees the weekend action panning out...
Bournemouth 1-2 Man Utd
Arsenal 2-2 Wolves
Aston Villa 0-2 Liverpool
Brighton 1-0 Norwich
Man City 6-0 Southampton
Sheffield Utd 1-1 Burnley
West Ham 1-1 Newcastle
Watford 0-2 Chelsea
Crystal Palace 2-2 Leicester
Everton 2-1 Tottenham
