
# Protect Your Home With This One-Day Sale On The SimpliSafe Security System

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:07:11+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/simplisafe-security-system-deal-sale-cheap.html)

Amazon is running a great deal on the SimpliSafe Security System today, in its Gold Box Deal of the Day.
You can pick up the 9-piece SimpliSafe Home Security System for just $279.99. That is good for $120 off of its regular price, and makes it a really good time to pick one up. Because this is also its all-time lowest price.
The SimpliSafe Home Security System comes in a few different models, this is the 9-piece kit which is normally a bit more expensive. But it includes with it, the Base Station with built-in 95dB siren, 4 Entry sensors, 2 Motion sensors, SimpliCam, Yard sign, Window security stickers and a Free month of monitoring.
Advertisement
Of course, similar to other security systems, this SimpliSafe one does allow you to get more entry sensors and motion sensors if you need them. They can be purchased separately. Now the yard sign is not something that everyone is going to want to use, but it's there in case you want it. And let everyone know that your home is secured by SimpliSafe.
Now, the SimpliSafe Home Security System does offer up professional monitoring, at a pretty low monthly price. This is totally optional, though. You can opt to just stick to the completely do-it-yourself nature of this system, or opt to have it monitored professionally. And there's no contract, so you can cancel the professional monitoring at any time. Which is actually a really useful feature that a lot of other companies don't offer – they want to lock you in.
There is also Alexa support, so you can arm and disarm your home with your voice.
Advertisement
You can pick up the 9-piece SimpliSafe Home Security System from Amazon by clicking here. This isn't going to be available for long though and will expire at midnight PST tonight, so you'll want to grab this one before it is gone.

        SimpliSafe Home Security System - Amazon - $279
      
