
# The Eight Steps To Commercialize Innovation

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lisa Caldwell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisacaldwell/2019/11/04/the-eight-steps-to-commercialize-innovation/)

To win in Industry 4.0, manufacturers need to change their approach to innovation. In particular, they must shift their focus from improving existing products and processes to developing genuinely new ones that target an unmet need in the market or value chain.As for how they do it, the best way is to view innovation as a journey — one that begins with ideation but goes on to feature a series of continuous, iterative steps all pointing toward the same ultimate goal: commercialization .
One firm that knows all about that journey is business innovation and product design company Nottingham Spirk. They have a methodology that has seen the firm commercialize around 95% of its new product innovations, a figure that towers above the manufacturing industry average of 5%.
So, what’s the secret behind their success? What exactly does their methodology look like? And, crucially, how can manufacturers use it to turn their own ideas into real competitive advantage?
Through our work together, these are the eight steps we have found to commercialize innovation:
Assuming the soft launch goes well, it is then a quick step to a full-scale unveiling. But even this is not the end of the process. The critical role of research, data analysis and live customer feedback continues, allowing you to keep refining even after the product or process goes live.
It is vital to note too that this journey to commercialization is not one that can happen in a matter of weeks. More often than not, it takes around 12 months of constant, disciplined effort — all with the singular aim of getting the product to market. As Nottingham Spirk Co-president John Nottingham puts it: “Often the most difficult transition for companies to make is rethinking their process around innovation. They have to be laser-focused on commercialization at all times.”
Above all else, it is this mindset shift that manufacturers must seek to embrace. Now is the time to establish a total end-to-end innovation process that also includes new digital technologies in manufacturing. This change will not be easy. But if the next 100 years are to be as transformative as the last, it is nonnegotiable too.

        The views expressed by the presenters are their own and not necessarily those of Ernst & Young LLP or other members of the global EY organization.
      
