
# Leona O'Neill: Why we should all be 'Diabetes aware'

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Leona O&#39;Neill**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/05/news/leona-o-neill-why-we-should-all-be-diabetes-aware--1755937/)

NOVEMBER is Diabetes Awareness Month. For many parents across Northern Ireland with children who live with the condition, every day is diabetes awareness day with the risk of severe hypoglycaemia, diabetic ketoacidosis and complications being added to the mix of normal parenting worries and responsibilities.
Type 1 diabetes is a serious, lifelong condition where your blood glucose level can get too high because your body can't make enough of a hormone called insulin. The human body needs insulin to function, it allows the glucose in our blood to enter the cells and fuel our bodies.
Around eight per cent of people with diabetes in the UK have Type 1 diabetes. This type of diabetes is not linked to diet or lifestyle at all – it just happens. As a result, the body attacks the cells in your pancreas that make insulin, so you can't produce any.
When you have a child with Type 1, as a parent you have to be constantly on alert, thinking about blood glucose levels – day and night – and making the necessary adjustments to keep your child safe. Some diabetics have to be woken in the night to check their blood sugar levels. The anxiety of 'what could happen' is a constant feature.
Most of the parents I know with children living with diabetes knew absolutely nothing about the condition before diagnosis. A friend's toddler who took suddenly ill after being really out of sorts for weeks was sent to hospital and she was injecting him with insulin within the hour.
Diabetes is a condition that is often thrust upon families and it is more often than not, a total shock. A lot of parents can feel guilty when their child is first diagnosed. This is mainly due to the myths that exist in society over the condition.
A widely held view among many is that diabetes develops due to bad diet, eating sweets and fatty foods. Indeed, The Great British Bake Off's Paul Hollywood had to apologise recently over a distasteful joke about the condition.
Fans of the Channel 4 show voiced their fury on social media when he made a comment about one contestant's sticky, sweet bake. Hollywood said it looked like "diabetes on a plate" before later going on Instagram to apologise, saying he "meant no harm" and that his grandad and mother both had the condition.
Perhaps because of mis-educated preconceptions of the condition, parents blame themselves and feel that others around them are blaming them too. Type 1 Diabetes – the condition children generally get – is genetic. There is nothing you can do about it. And that is why November's Diabetes Awareness Month is so important.
For parents facing a new diabetes journey with their child, there is a huge wealth of help out there. Your healthcare team is there to help you. Don't be afraid to ask them questions and ask for support. You need to understand what diabetes is and how to look after your loved one with it.
And it's OK to feel sad, overwhelmed, angry – even to grieve. Because diabetes changes the life of the person diagnosed. Not for the worst, it just changes. I have two friends with the condition, both hugely successful women – one owns a chain of restaurants and travels all over the world.
The other is a teaching assistant and Diabetes Champion, helping children coming into her school deal with, accept, manage and embrace the condition. She has built a fantastic school community of support.
Diabetes hasn't stopped those women living their best lives. They are strong, independent, extremely healthy and inspirational.
For the rest of us, November can be a month in which we can educate ourselves on the condition, dispel myths and even learn how we can deal with someone taking a 'hypo' – an incident where a person's blood sugar level dips so dangerously low they become weak, faint and collapse and, in severe cases, fall unconscious.
If the patient has their own glucose gel, help them to take it. If not, you need to give them something sugary like fruit juice, a fizzy drink, three teaspoons of sugar or sugary sweets. Reassure the person. Most people will gradually improve – but, if in doubt, call 999.
If the hypo is severe and they have lost consciousness, you shouldn't try to give any food or drink to the patient as they won't be able to swallow. Put the patient into the recovery position, administer a glucagon injection if they have one and you know how to use it and call an ambulance.

        For more information see Diabetes.org.uk
      
