
# Here are Dell’s great upcoming Black Friday deals

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:12:00+00:00**

Author: **Surur**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/dell-black-friday-deals/)

Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted.
Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in May this year, the versatile laptops blends together an exceptional user experience and stunning design in their smallest size. The 2-in-1 is available with Intel’s new 10th Gen Core™ processors, letting you easily juggle all your favourite apps while working from your family couch over the holidays.
In addition, the new XPS 13, is beautifully designed and perfect for those binge-watchers or busy mobile pros on the go. The XPS 13 features Dell CinemaColor and Dolby Vision, and an optional 4K Ultra HD InfinityEdge display, for incredible brightness, contrast, and colour to bring those classic holiday films to life. With excellent battery life and the new Killer™ AX1650 (2×2) built on Intel WiFi 6 Chipset, you’ll be equipped to experience seamless streaming and browsing while in flight or on the road to your holiday destination.
You can take advantage of Black Friday savings on the XPS 13 starting at just $799.99. Plus, browse more great deals on 2-in-1s and PCs at Dell.com/blackfriday.
For gamers, the new Alienware m15 and m17 are thin and light gaming laptops built with the new sleek, industrial Legend design. Engineered for gamers who prioritize mobility without compromise, these laptops are supercharged with Intel’s 9th Gen Core processors and up to NVIDIA’s RTX 20 series GPUs. Between top performance options like 240Hz and high-quality OLED displays, gamers will be tied to their device even when the turkey is ready. The two-colour options – Lunar Light and Dark Side of the Moon – allow gamers to choose what suits their style.
Don’t miss Black Friday savings on the Alienware m15 and Alienware m17 starting at just $1,399.99. Browse additional gaming deals and accessories, such as the Dell 24 Gaming Monitor doorbuster for $99.99, available at Dell.com/blackfriday.
Want more? Dell is also offering awesome deals across a variety of tech for all price points, including laptops starting as low as $130. You’ll also find savings on top electronics brands like Samsung, Bose and JBL with up to 50% off.
Dell also is extending the savings to their valued small business owners and entrepreneurs; from PCs to servers, you can find something to meet all of your small business needs with up to 50% off. Grab devices such as the Latitude 3500 laptop ($689), Dell Precision 3540 workstation ($709), Dell 32 Monitor D3218HN ($149.99) and PowerEdge T140 Tower Server ($499), all designed to improve productivity for today’s busy small business professional. Visit Dell.com/sbblackfriday for more details and offers.

        Full schedule of Dell’s holiday deals
      
