
# MIUI 11 stable version now available for Mi 8 Explorer Edition [UPDATE]

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:00:37+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/miui-11-stable-version-now-available-for-xiaomi-mi-8-explorer-edition/)

Rate this post
Chinese manufacturing giant, Xiaomi, has been releasing its latest MIUI 11 update to its smartphones. A couple of devices are already getting this update in China. The likes of Redmi Note 7, Redmi K20 series and even the Xiaomi Mi MIX 2S are already receiving this update.  The global release of this update will be verified soon. However, for now, the beta version of MIUI 11 based on Android 10 is now available for Xiaomi Mi 8 Explorer Edition.
Update: The stable version of this update is now rolling out. It weighs 2.2GB and the Chinese version of this device is currently receiving the update.
The new MIUI 11 supports cross-platform high-speed file transfer, and it is faster and more convenient to transfer photos, files and even applications between mobile phones. In addition, MIUI 11 supports all-around screencasting. The mobile phone is your pager, word processor and laser pointer. It supports more than 300 TVs, documents, videos, games, and applications. MIUI 11 also brings a mature modern design language, Vientiane screen, and even a dynamic natural sound system.
The Xiaomi Mi 8 Explorer Edition comes with a comprehensive display and also uses a completely transparent rear. This smartphone uses a 6.21-inch Samsung AMOLED screen with a resolution of 2248 × 1080. Under the hood, we have a Snapdragon 845 processor with 8GB of RAM and 128GB body storage. In the camera department, it has a 12MP + 12MP AI zoom dual-camera (supports AI video recording and AI scene camera). On the front, there is a 20MP camera (supporting micro plastic beauty). The battery capacity is 2900 mAh.
Via | Via 2
