
# Who is Aurelio Buta? The lowdown on Wolves and Newcastle United target

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:03:20+00:00**

Author: **Alex Dicken, https://www.facebook.com/alexdickenjournalist/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/who-aurelio-buta-lowdown-wolves-17199545)

Wolverhampton Wanderers are tracking Royal Antwerp defender Aurelio Buta.
The 22-year-old is impressing out in Belgium with Antwerp and has been watched by Wolves scouts in recent months.
Wolves aren’t the only Premier League club to have taken a look at Buta with Watford, Newcastle United and a host of Championship clubs also keeping tabs on him.
Buta, who has been capped by Portugal at under-16s through to under-20s, was born in Angola.
His family made the move to Portugal and Buta started his football education with Agueda and Beira-Mar, two teams situated in Aveiro, before joining Benfica’s academy in 2011.
He made a big impression while in Benfica’s academy and graduated to the B team in 2016, where he scored twice in 29 appearances.
Buta was loaned to Antwerp in 2017 but the move was made permanent last year with the right-back signing a three-year contract.
His younger brother Leonardo, 17, is also a footballer and currently plies his trade with Portuguese club Braga.
This is your round up of all things Wolves; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on Wolves throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WWFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Wolves reporter Alex Dicken on Twitter, and his email address is Alex.Dicken@reachplc.com
 
Buta has been described as an attacking right-back who would be well suited to the wing-back role Nuno Espirito Santo’s formations include.
He’s been in good form in Belgium this season with one goal and one assist in 12 league games, while he managed six assists in 20 appearances last term. Worryingly, though, Antwerp have only kept one clean sheet in their 12 Pro League games this campaign.
 
Buta is reportedly valued at around £5million which wouldn’t break Fosun’s bank.
Wolves’ most pressing transfer concerns lie in central defence and midfield but a new right wing-back could be signed in one of the next two transfer windows.
Nuno earmarked right wing-back as a position which may need strengthening at the end of last season before Adama Traore proved himself to be a useful alternative to Matt Doherty.
