
# Saudis recruited Twitter workers to spy on critics: US prosecutors

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:23:35+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press **

Original: [euronews](https://www.euronews.com/2019/11/07/saudis-recruited-twitter-workers-to-spy-on-critics-us-prosecutors?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

Saudi Arabia recruited two Twitter employees to gather confidential personal information on thousands of accounts that included prominent government opponents, according to prosecutors in the United States.
A complaint unsealed in U.S. District Court in San Francisco detailed a coordinated effort by Saudi government officials to recruit employees at the social media giant to look up the private data of Twitter accounts, including email addresses linked to the accounts and internet protocol addresses that can give up a user's location.
The accounts included those of a popular critic of the government with more than 1 million followers and a news personality. Neither was named.
The complaint also alleged that the employees — whose jobs did not require access to Twitter users' private information — were rewarded with a designer watch and tens of thousands of dollars funneled into secret bank accounts. Ahmad Abouammo, a U.S. citizen, and Ali Alzabarah, a Saudi citizen, were charged with acting as agents of Saudi Arabia without registering with the U.S. government.
The Saudi government had no immediate comment through its embassy in Washington. Its state-run media did not immediately acknowledge the charges.
The complaint marks the first time that the kingdom, long linked to the U.S. through its massive oil reserves and regional security arrangements, has been accused of spying in America.
The allegations against two former Twitter employees, and a third man who ran a social media marketing company that did work for the Saudi royal family, comes a little more than a year after the execution of Jamal Khashoggi. The Washington Post columnist and prominent critic of the Saudi government was dismembered in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.
Under King Salman and his son, 34-year-old Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, ultra-conservative Saudi Arabia has aggressively silenced and detained government critics even as it allows women to drive and opens movie theaters.
Prince Mohammed also has been implicated by U.S. officials and a United Nations investigative report in the assassination of Khashoggi.
