
# Potential For Confusion In Cancer Screening Guideline Recommendations

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joshua Cohen**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshuacohen/2019/11/07/potential-for-confusion-in-cancer-screening-guideline-recommendations/)

For those of you who are old enough to remember the 1970s sitcom Soap, you may recall that each episode started with a summary of the convoluted storyline and the remarks, “Confused? You won’t be, after this week’s episode of Soap.” Needless to say, watching the next episode made you more confused.
Well, that’s sort of what it seems like in the cancer screening world.
Benjamin Franklin’s axiom “an ounce of prevention is worth of pound of cure” is especially resonant with respect to cancer screening. However, it appears that there’s been an increase in the number of sometimes conflicting recommendations being put forward in clinical practice guidelines.
For the first time, a guideline recommends that screening for colorectal cancer should not be routinely carried out for all adults aged 50 to 79 years, but instead be limited to individuals with an elevated level of risk. This new guideline was established by an international panel of experts.
An accompanying editorial suggests that the new guideline on colorectal cancer screening represents a “radical shift that prioritizes informed choice over maximizing uptake.” It’s unclear how much of this editorial was informed by a cost-effectiveness assessment. Judging from references included in the editorial, cost-effectiveness may have been a factor.
Of course, emerging evidence from multiple sources can point in different directions. Accordingly, entities that publish the changing screening guidelines must take this into account. But, this can create confusion for patients, and even their physicians.
A cursory glance at other guideline recommendations on prostate and breast cancer screening also shows just how confusing it can get.
On prostate cancer screening, it’s been more than two years since a prominent panel of U.S. healthcare experts reversed an earlier position it took against the prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, blood test. Now, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) says the PSA could be beneficial for detecting and preventing prostate cancer in men ages 55 to 69.
And, new recommendations disseminated last year confirmed the value of annual mammographic screening for women in their 40s. This was in direct contrast to the 2009 and 2015 draft USPSTF grade B recommendations for routine mammographic screening to be done biennially beginning at age 50.
Surely, some turf battles may be going on here between proponents of more screening, and those who favor more streamlining and risk-stratifying of patients. Device companies, for example, may seek to influence those in charge of funding or providing new scan technologies. By contrast, insurers may wield countervailing power by imposing coverage restrictions based on emerging evidence.
Is there a way to clear up the confusion? Maybe through convening more consensus conferences and a collation of findings from multiple sources. To illustrate, periodically, the American Cancer Society publishes a summary of guidelines for early cancer detection, data and trends in cancer screening rates, and prominent issues related to cancer screening.
In the case of cancer screening, the questions individuals want answers to include: When should screening begin? How often is screening necessary? When should screening end? And, how much of all this is dependent on individual factors, such as a person’s medical history, genetics, and environment? For example, screening for prostate cancer is strongly recommended for men with BRCA2 mutations over the age of 40.
When changes in guideline recommendations occur it’s important that individuals and healthcare providers know why these changes happened. Were risks tied to screening cited? For example, false positives, or alternatively disutilities and harms associated with the screening itself. Was cost-effectiveness a trigger?
Individuals should be informed about the benefits and risks of different kinds of cancer screening and make decisions that best reflect their personal values and preferences. In each instance, it’s important is to emphasize to individuals and healthcare providers that the science is still evolving, and so any recommendation should be judged in context.
