
# ‘Bitcoin of the Middle East’ Scam Lands Canadian Expat in Dubai Jail

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:49:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Huillet**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-of-the-middle-east-scam-lands-canadian-expat-in-dubai-jail)

A Dubai-based Canadian expat has been arrested for peddling an allegedly fraudulent “Sharia-compliant” cryptocurrency and a host of other get-rich-quick schemes.
As Gulf News reported on Oct. 30, Aziz “Com” Mirza had cultivated for himself a reputation as an entrepreneur, mentor and Instagram influencer. 
He now sits in Al Awir jail after a complaint was filed with the Dubai Police by a UAE resident allegedly defrauded of $150,000 in one of Com’s schemes.
Com targeted a global audience, including retail investors from the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Greece. In just one of his schemes — dubbed the Leverage Programme (LP) and promising investors guaranteed “financial freedom” within a year — Com is thought to have raised £4 million ($5.18 million).
His “Habibi coin” cryptocurrency, now worthless, was billed as the “Bitcoin of the Middle East”.
Most of the funds from investors around the globe were wired to the bank account of a Dubai-based company owned by one of Com Mirza’s brothers, with huge amounts allegedly used to pay for personal expenses.
Com and another of his brothers, Rafaqat “Rocky” Mirza, used U.K.-based online platform Muslim Entrepreneur Network (MEN) to promote their schemes, spanning cryptocurrency, real estate and education.
One of the schemes encouraged MEN users to invest a minimum of £5,000 ($6,480)— at least 1,500 are cited as having signed up to the alleged scam. 
Gulf News cites the examples of several Habibi coin investors, each of whom has lost investments ranging from $1,500 to £14,000 ($18,150). Greece-based Ippokratis Boboras told Gulf news she had invested $10,000 in Habibi Coin back in 2018:
U.K. resident Mohammad Shareef reportedly lost £2000 ($2,590) in the Habibi scheme, underscoring that he had held off from investing until he met Com at his office in Dubai in person: 
This summer, Cointelegraph reported on a wave of fraudulent Libra and Bitcoin accounts surfacing online —  including on Facebook itself and wholly-owned app Instagram.
