
# Stormont can issue institutional abuse compensation, appeal court rules

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/stormont-can-issue-institutional-abuse-compensation-appeal-court-rules-1756518/)

VICTIMS of the "torture" of institutional abuse were made to feel "the lowest of the low", a campaigner said after appeal court judges ruled that Stormont's Executive Office has the power to compensate survivors.
Lord Justice Stephens ruled that the department can establish an ex gratia redress scheme "for those who have been tortured".
Victims have now called on officials to immediately act.
Margaret McGuckin of Survivors and Victims of Institutional Abuse said many victims had died without receiving any compensation.
"[We're] delighted, overjoyed but such a pity that we had to go to the High Court - not only the High Court but the High Court of Appeal to find the truth," she said.
A spokeswoman for the Executive Office said: “The department is considering the judgment.”
Senior judges in the Court of Appeal held that officials running the department have the power to implement an ex gratia scheme for elderly victims in the absence of a functioning assembly at Stormont.
The verdict appears to clear the way for payments to be made - even if a new bill on a recommended redress scheme fails to get through before parliament is dissolved tomorrow, ahead of a December 12 general election.
Legal action was brought over the ongoing failure to begin compensation payments recommended by the Historic Institutional Abuse inquiry in January 2017.
Shortly after the inquiry published its recommendations, Stormont collapsed.
The legal challenge was taken by a man in his seventies, identified only as JR80, on behalf of those subjected to physical and sexual mistreatment in children's homes run by religious orders and the state between 1922 and 1995.
Earlier this year a High Court judge dismissed the case after describing the continued political vacuum as defective and damaging for society, but not unconstitutional.
JR80 appealed against that ruling and sought to have the Secretary of State and Executive Office compelled to take immediate steps on the pay-outs.
His barrister argued that he and other survivors have been denied the justice they deserve from the state.
Appeal judges were told there is prerogative authority to introduce an ex gratia scheme of payments before it is too late.
Counsel for JR80 and others in the group stressed that victims are dying without any redress.
Lord Justice Stephens identified the first issue as being an ex gratia redress scheme "for those who have been tortured".
"We conclude that the Executive Office can exercise the prerogative to do do," he said.
"We emphasise this do not mean an ex gratia scheme has to be set up, but it establishes there's a power to do so."
Judges also found no evidence that Secretary of State Julian Smith had considered exercising his powers to direct a Northern Ireland department to establish the compensation scheme.
They held that he should consider giving such a direction, but imposed no obligation.
Outside court, JR80's solicitor Claire McKeegan said survivors' decision to take legal action had been vindicated.
"This is a hugely significant and important day for survivors of institutional abuse in Northern Ireland.
She added that victims were "very hopeful" that yesterday's decision would "put pressure on MPs who are sitting in parliament today and have the power to take the steps that weren't taken here in Northern Ireland".
Ms McKeegan called on the British government to take "immediate steps" to establish a compensation scheme for victims.
"The use of the word torture in today's judgment is almost unprecedented. For the court to state that these people within the UK territory have been subjected to torture is hugely significant and another reason why it is so scandalous they have been failed for three years when they were asking for a redress mechanism to be implemented."
Interim victims' advocate Brendan McAllister said yesterday's ruling meant "some kind of compensation scheme is now assured".
But he said survivors needed a "robust compensation scheme" which is provided in the abuse bill expected to be heard in the House of Commons.
"It will establish a scheme under the authority of an independent redress board," he said.
"It will establish a Commissioner's office. Rather than relying on civil servants, these are the mechanisms by which the interests of victims can be best upheld."
