
# Air unhealthy but it's business as usual at Kotla

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:29:22+00:00**

Author: **Partha Bhaduri**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/air-unhealthy-but-its-business-as-usual-at-kotla/articleshow/71884980.cms)

NEW DELHI: There's a health emergency on in Delhi, but don't tell that to the cricketers, or the fans! India and Bangladesh played out a full T20 International game, to a packed house, at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Sunday evening as the Air Quality Index (AQI), which had reached alarming levels in the morning, dropped considerably later on.
AQI levels at the nearby National Stadium were 245 at 6.00 pm, an hour before the start. This was still at "very unhealthy" levels in which outdoor sporting activity is not at all advisable. At 8 pm, minutes before Shivam Dube was dismissed, the AQI had risen to 279. It was, however, down considerably from a maximum of 864 earlier in the day as Delhiites woke up to find themselves trapped in gas-chamber-like conditions in spite of a light early morning shower.
Thick white smog enveloped the city and AQI levels went through the roof. It reached 999 at several places. Many Bangladeshi journalists arrived late for the game, since their flights had been diverted -- a total of 37 such flights were diverted from Delhi airport due to low visibility.
TOI has learnt that top Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) officials, who were present on Sunday evening at the Kotla to watch the game, had called up BCCI officials earlier to enquire about the situation. "No need to panic, the game is on. Hopefully the weather will improve," the BCCI told them.
"It is great that the skies have opened up. It seemed difficult in the morning," Delhi and District Cricket Association president Rajat Sharma said.
A BCB official said, "We were all hopeful weather conditions would improve a bit. There's actually nothing to be done except carry on with the game."
Desperate attempts to make the dust settle in and around the Ferozeshah Kotla began midmorning, with trees being sprayed with water and extra sanitation workers being deployed to sweep the streets around the stadium. The pollution didn't deter ordinary fans, though, thousands of whom nearly overwhelmed security at two particular gates in their attempts to procure tickets.
However, it seems the pollution did affect the sale of corporate box tickets, many of which remained unsold.
In spite of the public fervour and prior broadcasting commitments, it is time, as new BCCI president Sourav Ganguly suggested in the lead-up to the game, to introspect about the merits of scheduling games in Delhi in the weeks following Diwali.
After all, schools are closed and there's a ban on construction activity. Why subject 22 international cricketers to a three-hour outdoor game when the health advisory is to even avoid unnecessary travel, forget a morning jog?
The game itself may have passed without incident but that's not the point.
