
# Olivia Colman supports BAFTA For the Love of Film competition for local heroes

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:01:53+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/film/olivia-colman-supports-bafta-for-20831411)

One of Britain's most beloved actresses has spoken out in support of a BAFTA competition for unsung heroes.
Olivia Colman, BAFTA Leading Actress winner 2019, has spoken out in support of the BAFTA "For the Love of Film" competition, which searches the nation for inspiring individuals ad local heroes who have worked hard to help the public access and engage in cinema, with the actress highlighting London’s Peckhamplex when talking about its community spirit.
Colman said: "It’s really exciting to see BAFTA honour and recognise people who work tirelessly to share the joy of film with their local communities. The ‘For the Love of Film’ competition is an excellent platform to showcase the unsung heroes of the UK’s film industry.
"A brilliant example of an organisation playing a vital role in making movies accessible to their community is local cinema, Peckhamplex – they provide all films all day at one affordable price, amazing Q&As and special interest weeks. They are really community minded and helpful; I couldn't praise them enough."
 
Last year's inaugural competition saw honours for Dan Ellis, Founder and Managing Director of Jam Jar Cinema, and Iain MacColl, Senior Operator of Screen Machine.
On the competition, Amanda Berr, Chief Executive of BAFTA, said: "Film has the power to change lives, which is why BAFTA is committed to celebrating inspiring individuals from across the UK who are ensuring that film is at the heart of their local communities.
"Last year I was so impressed by the work of both Screen Machine and Jam Jar Cinema and I can’t wait to see who is selected this year."
Winners of the competition this time around will be able to attend the EE British Academy Film Awards on February 2, 2020.
Entrants will be considered by a panel, including BAFTA Award winning director Amma Asante, broadcaster Edith Bowman, four-time BAFTA Award winning writer/director Paul Greengrass, filmmaker and content creator Jack Howard, and Andrew Orr from the BAFTA film committee.
If you know of a local hero in your Film Community that deserves to be considered for an honour, then you can enter here, with entries closing at 10am GMT on December 2, 2019.
You will need to provide maximum of two supporting evidence for the nomination, including press cuttings, photographs, and supporting statements.
