
# The best Dyson hair dryer prices and deals for Black Friday

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:25:14+00:00**

Author: **Stacey Dutton**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/best-dyson-hair-dryer-prices-17177132)

With Christmas nearly here- we are all desperate to bag a bargain.
Especially with products that are a little more costly this time of year like the Dyson Hair Dryer- retailers are starting to reduce the prices in time for the Black Friday huge price reductions.
Usually shoppers are scouring the high street for reductions on TV's, furniture and other devices for Black Friday- so this is a nice gifting idea this Christmas.
The Dyson hair dryer wowed shoppers on it's release last year, with tempting features including magnetic attachments, air multiplier technology and a digital motor which spins six times faster than other hair dryers.
With the need for the popular product being huge on the high street- we thought we would compare prices and see where we can find the cheapest.
Here are just some of the biggest retailers who stock them.
John Lewis offer the Dyson in black, fuschia and gift edition for £299.99.
But, it's a worthy buy at John Lewis - as it's the one department store who offer some of their Dyson product range on interest free credit plans.
Boots also stocks the trending range.
Again at £299.99- the store has a price match promise on this product- AND Boots shoppers could use their advantage card to earn points on purchasing one.
Currys seems to be the best option for those wanting a price plan with their purchase.
Shoppers can pick up the hair dryer for £299.99 BUT, you can use their credit payment plan for just £11.52 a month.
Amazon have labelled the Dyson as one of their "Amazon Choice" products- and it comes with £10 off if you want to get your hands on their Amazon Platinum Mastercard.
So, for now the prices of the Dyson are staying put, BUT there are plenty of ways you can save at some of the stores above so it's not such a hefty blow around Christmas with a structured payment plan.
This factbox contains affiliate links, we may receive a commission on any sales we generate from it.
 
