
# GreenTech Malaysia appoints Shamsul Bahar Mohd Nor as new CEO

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:11:21+00:00**

Author: **Wong Swee May**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/greentech-malaysia-appoints-shamsul-bahar-mohd-nor-new-ceo)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): Malaysian Green Technology Corp (GreenTech Malaysia) — under the Ministry of Energy, Science, Technology, Environment and Climate Change (MESTECC) — has appointed Shamsul Bahar Mohd Nor as its new chief executive officer (CEO) effective today, to spearhead the country's climate change agenda and to drive sustainable economic development.
According to a statement by GreenTech Malaysia, Shamsul — who has over 30 years of experience in the corporate sector — has shown that he is a "dynamic combination of scientific mind-set coupled with technological know-how and business acumen".
Shamsul was previously the managing director of Syngas Renewable Energy, the executive director of Saham Utama Sdn Bhd and CEO of Polymal Corp.
He was involved with Benchmark International Ltd's offering of Syariah-compliant Green Bonds for green technology, renewable energy and sustainability projects in Southeast Asia.
In 2014, Shamsul was awarded the patent approval in 40 countries for a renewable energy system that converts waste plastics into commercial Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel Oil (EN590), winning him the MOSTI's Innovation of the Year Award, Malaysian Green Technology Corporation's Catalyst Award and the United Nation's Global Cleantech Innovation Award for Green Technology Renewable Energy Systems.
GreenTech Malaysia chairman Datuk Dr Abu Bakar Jaafar said it is an exciting time for GreenTech Malaysia to expand its role in becoming the nation's climate change centre which requires strong leadership, clear vision and decisive action.
"I am therefore very pleased to welcome Shamsul to the team. With his tremendous exposure and considerable experience in both the public and private sectors, I am confident that he will lead the organisation to new heights," he said.
Meanwhile, Shamsul said: "I am honoured to be helming GreenTech Malaysia especially at a time when there is increasing awareness and consequently increasing demand for climate action. With its 10-year track record, GreenTech Malaysia will now play a more active role in driving the country's green agenda and sustainable development."
"I look forward to leading the team with a unified vision and purpose to strengthen Malaysia's position as a country that is able to undertake bold climate action while ensuring shared economic prosperity," he added.
