
# Man, 27, sentenced to 22 years for torturing and sexually assaulting 18-month-old

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:57:11+00:00**

Author: **Kelly-Ann Mills, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-man-27-jailed-22-20832920)

A man has been given a 22-year sentence after carrying out a prolonged campaign of physical and sexual abuse against a toddler.
Kane Fanelli subjected the victim to a protracted campaign of abuse between May 2018 and June 2018.
The child, who has now been safeguarded, suffered a catalogue of traumatic injuries including bruising, swelling, bite marks, burns, cuts and abrasions.
On Sunday 1 July 2018, when the victim who lived in Watford, was just 18 months old, he was taken to hospital with an injury.
After doctors conducted a thorough physical examination, they discovered a large number of other painful injuries they deemed non-accidental and the police were called.
One of the paediatricians who assessed the victim said that ‘in over 25 years of paediatric practice he had rarely seen such extensive injuries in a child’ and that it was ‘fortuitous he was alive’.
The victim was given medical treatment to relieve his pain before being immediately placed under police protection.
Fanelli of Clover Close, Luton, was convicted after a seven-week trial at St Albans Crown Court.
Detective constable Caroline Bright, from Hertfordshire Constabulary’s Joint Child Protection Investigation Team, said: “This was the most challenging and gruelling case I have ever investigated and first and foremost, my thoughts are with the little boy.
"He is now finally safe from his abuser and I can only hope the inexplicable cruelty he suffered does not have a far-reaching impact on the rest of his life.
“During his campaign of torture, Fanelli showed himself to be a significant and dangerous risk to children.
"He consistently displayed a complete disregard for the wellbeing of an innocent toddler.
“I am satisfied with Fanelli’s custodial sentence and am glad he will no longer pose a danger to children now he is behind bars.”
After serving an 18-year custodial sentence, Fanelli will serve an additional four years on extended licence.
He will be assessed prior to release from prison to ensure he no longer poses a danger to the community.
His name will appear on the Sex Offenders’ Register indefinitely and he will also be subject to a lifetime Sexual Harm Prevention Order (SHPO) with a number of terms which prevent him having contact with any child under the age of 16.
Fanelli is prohibited from contacting the victim, who is now three years old and thriving in foster care.
