
# Edenbridge bonfire: John Bercow effigy is set alight at famous fireworks display

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/edenbridge-bonfire-john-bercow-effigy-20801159)

Speaker John Bercow was at the heart of plenty of fireworks in Parliament - and last night a huge likeness of him went down in flames.
An effigy of the outgoing politician, who stood down this week, was burned last night in Kent.
But all did not go to plan, as strong winds blew Bercow's head off an 11 metre design which also included Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn.
Video shows the ex-Buckingham MP's large head being set alight by the Edenbridge Bonfire Society in Kent.
The group is renowned for picking controversial figures to burn, with Katie Hopkins, Wayne Rooney, Saddam Hussein and Jonathan Ross among its former targets.
 
Andrea Deans, who created the Bercow figure, said: "As always, we received many suggestions for who the public would like to see at our event and this year it was a close vote between John Bercow and Piers Morgan.
"However, John Bercow is not going to be on his own on the night as we have included Johnson, Corbyn and the whole Houses of Parliament to join him."
Fireworks were also set off at the display, and a large parade was held.
Following the event, many shared their thoughts on social media.
Debbie Edwards wrote: "Thank you for the fantastic parade and firework display, especially following the awful weather today. Well done to all concerned."
 
And Leigh Gyngell posted on Facebook : "Wow amazing this year, well done Edenbridge best yet!"
Bonfire society chairman Bill Cummings said "This year we have chosen the infuriating Commons Speaker John Bercow as our celebrity guy, and I am sure you will agree that our artist, Andrea Deans, has captured his likeness very well.
"Our message to Mr Bercow is that you cannot keep disrupting Parliament and this is one situation you cannot argue yourself out of.
"We hope Mr Bercow will appreciate the humour contained in our caricature and take it in the good spirit with which it is intended."
The bonfire society says the intention behind its own light-hearted tradition is to bring an element of fun to proceedings, to raise awareness of the event, which raises thousands of pounds for local charities and community organisations.
The society has been celebrating Bonfire Night for more than 90 years and this year will see more than 750 people joining the torchlit parade through Edenbridge High Street.
It takes more than 100 volunteers to put on the event and local businesses provide sponsorship or help out with support activities.
