
# Wine Trends In 2019 Part I

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Liza B. Zimmerman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lizazimmerman/2019/11/04/wine-trends-in-2019-part-i/)

This year saw the rosé market get ever hotter. Bubbles remained trendy, along with orange wines and millennials continued to perplex data analysts. So what is on the docket for the rest of the year and beyond?I reached out to the Napa-based Rob McMillan, the founder and executive vice president of the Silicon Valley Bank Wine Division, to get his take on this year’s hottest drinks trends.
All responses have been edited for length and clarity.

        Liza B. Zimmerman (LBZ): How is wine consumption changing?
      
Rob McMillan (RM): Wine consumption continues to evolve. Varietals (and categories) that still have positive volume growth include Cabernet Sauvignon, Prosecco, sparkling wine, rosé and sangria.
Private label wines are doing well, and alternative packaging, particularly 375-ml bottles are on a growth ramp. Other varietals are declining in volume growth.

        LBZ: What demographics are leading these changes?
      
RM: The young millennial consumer is both frugal and comes armed with an understanding of alcohol beverage categories. They are still favoring spirits over wine and the trend of moderation and sobriety driven by health concerns is impacting volume consumption of beverage alcohol.
Boomers, as they age, continue to drink less but good quality. The seemingly forgotten GenX is leading the charge in growth.

        LBZ: How are millennials continuing to affect drinking patterns?
      
RM: Millennials are frugal hedonists. They know what good is, but they cautiously spend their money. Health and dieting trends have them questioning more what they put in their mouths.
Wine, which was once perceived as healthy as a consequence of science and the publicity surrounding the French Paradox, Mediterranean Diet and Arthur L. Klatsky’s work—on heart attack prevention—has been effectively rebranded for young consumers as unhealthy. With wine in particular, the price to value comparison with premium spirits has tilted toward spirits.
The rest of the year is likely to bring other interesting developments as data analysts may focus more on GenX.
