
# The Maulana and the liberal predicament

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Zubair Torwali**

Original: [The Express Tribune Blog](https://blogs.tribune.com.pk/story/90131/the-maulana-and-the-liberal-predicament/)


        The right wing party Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) has now sent an ultimatum to Imran Khan. How this situation transpires over the next couple of days will reveal a lot about not just the parties involved and the establishment but will also shed light upon how various groups in Pakistan view the ‘Azadi march.’ Interestingly, Maulana Fazlur Rehman and his march have found some support from certain liberal corners of the country, at least through social and conventional media, despite the fact that many of these individuals share very little ideological DNA with these parties. Whenever it comes to ‘ideology,’ the religious parties and the establishment are usually on the same page against the liberals of the country. They become united against the former and declare them ‘traitors’, ‘anti-Islam’, and ‘anti-Pakistan.’
      
But the recent temporary ‘marriage’ between the liberals and the JUI-F provides us with a number of lessons. The liberal class has no united front and lack any leadership in the country, because of which they can never initiate a mass mobilisation. The Pakistan Peoples Party’s (PPP) veneer of liberalism has been crumbling ever since the death of Benazir Bhutto and is now essentially a slogan disseminated from the pulpit which has lead to no tangible change or policy measures. However, keep in mind that the PPP has been succumbing to the pressures from the right wingers ever since the time of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. Hence, the current face of PPP holds very little appeal for the liberals in Pakistan, however they are searching for someone who will unite with them in their desire to take the charge against Imran Khan.
