
# Meghan Markle on 'fears and insecurities' and why she doesn't want people to love her

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:02:17+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/meghan-markle-fears-insecurities-doesnt-20786125)

Meghan Markle opened up about the 'hopes, fears and insecurities' as she chatted to disadvantaged women.
The Duchess of Sussex comforted a crying domestic violence victim during a visit to the London-based Luminary Bakery, a non-profit organisation set up to empower women.
She told the woman, who was stabbed by a former partner, that humans are 'not mechanical objects that need to be fixed'.
Meghan also spoke out about women having a 'deep connection' and 'shared understanding' with each other in her latest interview.
According to the Daily Telegraph, the royal said: "I find that when you strip all the layers away, as people, and especially as women, we can find deep connection with each other, and a shared understanding.
"Our lives may be different, our backgrounds, our experiences, all varied, but I find that in these moments of connection it becomes abundantly clear that our hopes, our fears, our insecurities, the things that make us tick…. well, those are very much the same. And there's comfort in that."
She also criticised today's 'culture of instant gratification, or the instant fix' during her visit to the bakery.
Megan told the Daily Telegraph she did not want people to love her - and instead hopes they will to listen to her.
It comes after the Duchess revealed she was struggling being a mum in the spotlight.
Meghan and Prince Harry gave in-depth interviews in a recent ITV documentary that charted their Africa Royal Tour.
Prince Harry also revealed he and brother William were going down separate paths in life.
The Duchess, who appeared emotional on screen, said pregnancy is a "really vulnerable" time, adding not many people had asked after her well being.
She said she had "tried to adopt this British sensibility of a stiff upper lip" but had been left feeling hurt over negative press coverage the couple had received.
