
# EPCR release short, ominous statement on Saracens

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:42:39+00:00**

Author: **By Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/epcr-the-key-questions-surrounding-saracens-salary-cap-breaches-case)

The EPCR have released a statement in the wake of the furore over Saracens and their alleged breach of the Premiership salary cap.
English and European champions Saracens have been docked 35 points and fined more than £5million, pending appeal, over breaches of salary cap rules.
Saracens failed to make a player and coach available for the EPCR launch in Cardiff as they are required to do.
The short, ominous statement reads:
“EPCR is disappointed to learn of Saracens’ decision to make their club representatives unavailable for today’s official 2019/20 Season Launch of the Heineken Champions Cup and Challenge Cup in Cardiff.
“EPCR will now consider what action is appropriate in this instance and will be making no further comment at this time.”

        Click here to see the video
      
The EPCR could choose to enforce their own penalties on the troubled Premiership club.

        Why does the sport have a salary cap and how big is it?
      
Premiership Rugby, which manages the top league in the English club game, introduced the salary cap in 1999 with the twin aims of ensuring a level playing field and maintaining a competitive, growing and financially sustainable league, ie preventing the clubs from the pitfalls of over-spending.
The cap was increased from £6.5m to £7m ahead of the 2017-18 season and will remain at this level until the end of the 2019-20 season. The ceiling includes dispensation for academy and injured players and effectively raises the possible spend to around £9m.
https://twitter.com/RugbyPass/status/1191730439377043457/photo/1

        What exactly have Saracens done?
      
Premiership Rugby responded to allegations of a salary cap breach by carrying out an investigation which took nine months. An independent panel was then appointed in June by dispute service, Sport Resolutions, and on Tuesday it ruled that Saracens failed to disclose payments to players in each of the last three seasons. It concluded that the club also exceeded the ceiling for payments to senior players in that time.
No details have been revealed on the size of the undisclosed payments or the recipients but Premiership Rugby’s investigations were thought to have centred around owner Nigel Wray’s involvements in companies such as VunProp Ltd (Mako and Billy Vunipola), Faz Investments Ltd (Owen Farrell), Wiggy9 Ltd (Richard Wigglesworth) and MN Property Solutions Ltd (Maro Itoje).
Wray has in the past argued that ‘investment is not salary’ and likened the arrangements to his public support of coffee and brewing companies set up by players.
A statement issued when the allegations came to light said: “A professional playing career in rugby can be short. We have a responsibility to help our players fulfil their potential, not just on the pitch but off it too.”
