
# Ann Budge sets Hearts next manager deadline as she maps out criteria for recruitment

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:07:12+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ann-budge-sets-hearts-next-20813589)

Ann Budge will accept applications until the end of this week before deciding who will be the next Hearts manager.
The Jambos owner insists the club have been inundated with CVs after sacking Craig Levein , who also served as director of football, last week.
She wants another experienced operator in the dugout, with particular focus on bringing through youngsters from the Riccarton academy.
Budge expects to begin interviewing candidates next week but is adamant she will not be rushed into a decision.
Motherwell's Stephen Robinson and former St Mirren manager Jack Ross have emerged as early candidates, although the club could face competition from rivals Hibs after they dismissed Paul Heckingbottom on Monday.
“We have a criteria and we have already had a host of applications," Budge said. "I want to give it until the end of this week for anyone who wants to throw their hat into the ring.
“Then the sifting process will begin in earnest with the interviewing process next week. Our policy has always been to develop youth, so we want someone comfortable bringing in young players.
"That is important. Experience is important.
"Is experience of Scottish football important? It’s something you can’t ignore but not having managed in Scotland would not preclude someone.”
Despite his dismissal from the manager's post, Levein will remain at the club until the end of the season and is expected to carry out some of his sporting director duties until a new appointment is made.
Levein will have no definitive say in the recruitment process but Budge admits she may lean on him for advice.
She added: "I’m not going to stop talking to Craig. If I get to a point where I’ve two or three candidates will I ask his opinion? Yes, probably.
“But what I don’t want to do is let people think he’s going to be involved in the recruitment process.
 
“I might ask his opinion in the same way as I would ask someone else’s opinion if I thought they were suitably qualified.
“But I’m going to be talking to Craig potentially even more than I did in the past because of the role we are shaping up.”
