
# Voice of The Mirror: The Tories are busy proving they are unfit for government

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:27:51+00:00**

Author: **Voice of the Mirror, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/voice-of-the-mirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/voice-mirror-tories-busy-proving-20828392)

The Tories have spent the first few days of the election proving why they are unfit for government.
We have already seen the resignation of Welsh Secretary Alun Cairns, Jacob Rees-Mogg’s callous comments on Grenfell and party chairman James Cleverly caught out doctoring a campaign video.
Voters will question why this inept, malicious and underhand party should be anywhere near power.
If they are so incompetent at running a campaign, why would they be any better at running the country?
While the Tories lurch from one blunder to the next, shadow chancellor John McDonnell today sets out plans for a more prosperous Britain, including a new social transformation fund to fix a decade of Conservative austerity.
Over the next five years Labour is pledging to spend £150billion on schools, hospitals, care homes and housing and transfer power and investment from London to the north.
Only Labour has the vision and the will to bring real change to all parts of the country.
Doctors are warning the NHS is set for its worst-ever winter crisis.
The British Medical Association fears more than a million patients will have to wait more than four hours at A&E with a shortage of beds stranding thousands on trolleys.
The evidence is already there as Nottingham University Hospital Trust declaring a critical incident this week because of the pressure.
NHS staff are doing everything they can to provide the best possible care over winter.
The fault lies with a Tory government that has starved the health service of funds.
If there is a major health crisis they deserve to pay the price at the ballot box.
Spending lottery winnings to help your daughter get IVF treatment is rare.
But now Mark and Ruth Chambers are proud grandparents and their life has never been richer.
