
# Windows 10 KB4522355 brings back the Start Menu issue

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/windows-10-kb4522355-brings-back-the-start-menu-issue/)

Microsoft recently released Windows 10 cumulative update KB4522355 for Windows 10 May 2019 Update (Windows 10 version 1903) devices. It came with plenty of bug fixes and performance improvements, and one of the important fixes was for the Start menu bug.
However, it appears that the Start Menu issue, which according to Microsoft is resolved in the latest cumulative update, is still present in the Windows 10 KB4522355 update. Interestingly, affected users are not getting any critical error upon launching the Start Menu this time around, unlike the previous cases.
“Part of this update was to correct the start menu issue that many users were experiencing. However I’d like to report that this issue is still present and is still a huge issue. We are trying our best to get off of version 1803 because the end of life is approaching (November 12th, 2019) however this one particular issue is preventing us from doing so,” wrote a user.
Except for the Start Menu issue, some users are reportedly getting the following error while installing the latest cumulative update:
Microsoft is yet to acknowledge the issue, so there is no official fix available right now. Nevertheless, like always, you can get of rid these issues just by uninstalling the Windows 10 KB4522355 update.
via Windowslatest
