
# 'Quid pro quo, yes or no?' Trump allies face Ukraine question

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:39:21+00:00**

Author: **Edward Helmore**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2019/nov/03/kellyanne-conway-trump-ukraine-impeachment)

As Donald Trump repeated his demand that the whistleblower who triggered the impeachment inquiry should be identified, White House counsellor Kellyanne Conway refused to say the president did not offer the leader of Ukraine a quid pro quo involving military aid and the investigation of his political rivals.
That is the issue at the heart of impeachment proceedings: whether or not nearly $400m in military aid to Ukraine was illegally withheld, pending Trump’s demand that Volodymyr Zelenskiy investigate alleged corruption involving Joe Biden and other supposed wrongdoing linked to Democrats in 2016.
“The whistleblower got it sooo wrong that HE must come forward,” Trump tweeted on Sunday. “The Fake News Media knows who he is but, being an arm of the Democrat [sic] Party, don’t want to reveal him because there would be hell to pay. Reveal the Whistleblower and end the Impeachment Hoax!”
The whistleblower’s lawyer later said the unnamed CIA official was willing to answer Republican questions in writing, but not to be identified.
In a heated exchange on CNN’s State of the Union, meanwhile, Conway refused to answer yes or no when asked if Trump had ever offered Zelenskiy a quid pro quo.
“I don’t know,” she said, “but I know they’ve got their aid. Here’s what’s unimpeachably true: Ukraine has the aid, and the Ukrainian president has said he had no idea the aid was being held up and felt no such pressure.”
Trump took a different tack. When the president returned to the White House from New York, the Guardian asked him directly if there was a quid pro quo.
He said: “No, not at all, not at all.”
Trump, White House aides and their Republican allies continue to attempt to paint a 25 July call between Trump and Zelenskiy as wholly innocent, despite the evidence contained in its own partial transcript and sworn testimony from national security officials.
