
# Houston Astros owner vows to 'take a run' at Gerrit Cole during free agency

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:32:14+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Gaydos**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/astros-owner-gerrit-cole-free-agency)

Houston Astros owner Jim Crane didn’t appear that he was willing to let Gerrit Cole leave the team without a fight, assuring the media Monday the team will “take a run” at the pitcher during free agency.
Cole, whose last impression with the club may have been him addressing reporters while wearing a Boras Corp. hat in the locker room following the team’s Game 7 loss to the Washington Nationals in the World Series, is expected to command a salary well north of $200 million.

        
          GERRIT COLE WEARS BORAS CORP HAT, DISTANCES HIMSELF FROM ASTROS MOMENTS AFTER WORLD SERIES LOSS
        
      
“We're going to take a run at it. We don't know if we can get to where they want to get,” Crane told reporters, according to the Houston Chronicle.
He added that he is aware super-agent Scott Boras is “tough to deal with.”

        
          NATS TOP ASTROS 6-2, CLAIM FIRST WORLD SERIES TITLE IN FRANCHISE HISTORY
        
      
Cole was among the top pitchers in the American League last season. But he appeared to be clearly frustrated with the team failing to use him in a pivotal moment in Game 7.
He finished the 2019 season with a 20-5 record, a 2.50 ERA and 326 strikeouts.

        
          CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
        
      
Cole has been rumored to be interested in returning to his native California, which makes it likely the Los Angeles Dodgers and Los Angeles Angels would be top suitors.
