
# More spy shots emerge of the 2020 Tata Tiago facelift

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:48:02+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/more-spy-shots-emerge-of-the-2020-tata-tiago-facelift/)

A new spy video on the internet gives us the clearest idea yet of what the upcoming Tata Tiago facelift might look like. The hatchback and the Tigor, its sub-four-metre sedan twin, are expected to see a significant refresh in the coming months.
The new front fascia looks to have a more pronounced grille which seems to be angled inward. On either side, the wide angular headlamps, reminiscent of the upcoming Altroz hatchback are also seen. This is in line with the brand's Impact 2.0 design language as seen on the Harrier. Also new are the redesigned front and rear bumpers, with a new air dam and more creases. The only noticeable difference between the twins seems to be the narrower air dam without the slim extensions that we saw on the Tigor. The Tiago also seems to get a separate fog lamp housing. We expect the interiors to get a refresh as well with a new touchscreen infotainment system, an all-digital instrument cluster, and the layered theme with contrasting materials from newer Tata cars. Aside from this, all the neccesary crash protection and safety tech now mandatory have already been added to the two cars.
Mechanically, there should be no changes to the naturally aspirated 1.2-litre Revotron motor that puts out 85PS of power and 114Nm of torque, with a claimed mileage of 23.84kmpl. There are multi-drive modes - City and Eco. The 1,047cc turbocharged Revotorq diesel motor makes 70PS/140Nm and claims to deliver 27.28kmpl. Both the petrol and diesel engines are mated to a 5-speed manual transmission. The petrol will be made BSVI compliant while the diesel motor could be replaced by a detuned version of the Nexon's 1.5-litre motor in BSVI form.
