
# Rishabh Pant needs to work on his offside strokeplay, opines Dean Jones

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:15:37+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/rishabh-pant-needs-to-work-on-his-offside-strokeplay-opines-dean-jones?utm_medium=rss)


        Australian cricket veteran Dean Jones is of the opinion that ‘one-trick pony’ Rishabh Pant is currently struggling with his batting since he needs to improve on his offside game. Recently, the youngster has been making it to the headlines for all the wrong reasons and this was yet another setback.
      
Following his unimpressive performances, Pant was dropped from the Test side ahead of the home series against South Africa and was replaced by Wriddhiman Saha. More than the numbers, what was more disapproving to coach Ravi Shastri was the 21-year-old’s habit of throwing away his wicket. Moreover, his wicket-keeping skills weren’t top notch either. 
Moving into the ongoing T20I series against Bangladesh, Pant hasn’t shown any improvement. Now, cricketer turned expert, Dean Jones feels Pant is still in the process of learning and needs to pump his game especially by working on his off-side strokeplay. 
"He's still a young kid, still learning his craft, still doesn't know what's going on a little bit," Jones was quoted as saying by Reuters.
"He needs to work more on his strokeplay through the offside. At the moment, he's just a bit of a one-trick pony. We know he's got an off-side game, he's just got to work more. It wouldn't take long to change but he needs to be very specific in his training program right now."
