
# My time on The Apprentice taught me a lot about black men in business

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:15:37+00:00**

Author: **Samuel Brooksworth**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/01/the-apprentice-black-men-business-senior-positions-discrimination)


        There is a lack of black men in senior positions. We need to tackle the discrimination that is holding so many people back
      
How many black British businessmen can you name? Take a minute, I’ll wait. I’m not dismissing the accomplishments of any black men who have reached the heights in the corporate world. But I guarantee many people will struggle to think of more than 10 names. Of FTSE 100 chief executives, there are currently more white men called Steve than there are ethnic minorities in total (just five). Of those five, only one is a black male.
A lack of recognised black businessmen was one of the reasons I applied to BBC One’s The Apprentice in 2016, for which I was selected as a candidate (I was then using an old family surname, Boateng). Since Tim Campbell won the first ever series in 2005, only one other black man apart from me has reached the seventh week. Seeing Lord Sugar’s “you’re fired” finger point at me was surreal, though with the disappointment came a sense of relief that I could finally get a good night’s sleep. However, having sold the most in every task up until that point, I didn’t feel it was my time to go. This got me thinking: why have black men struggled to succeed on the show – and, more importantly, in business in the UK? This year, for example, by the third week of the show, the only two black male candidates had already been fired.
After appearing on The Apprentice, I went in search of investment for my business idea. I put together a team of industry experts and we created a comprehensive pitch and financial plan to show that my business idea was viable. I then met with investors, applied for accelerator programmes, incubator programmes, seed funding – you name it, I applied. I was rejected every time.
Having learned so much from this journey, I then started a not-for-profit with leading professionals within finance, law and marketing to help entrepreneurs understand how to set up their businesses and the different ways to secure funding. Having run this for more than a year, I found that most white entrepreneurs who attended our courses, workshops and seminars tended to secure funding yet the black entrepreneurs struggled to do so. I questioned why and looked into this deeper.
I found out that UK startups raised more money in equity investment in 2017 than ever before. However with this influx of cash and new ideas being funded, there is a lack of diversity among venture capitalists. Though overwhelmingly based in London, they are not as diverse as the city’s population as a whole.
People naturally tend to give opportunities to those who look like them and fit into their organisation’s culture. For this reason, many black males are not promoted into leadership positions, or given investment for their startups. But without these opportunities, how can black men then gain the required experience to fully succeed?
I was taught by my parents that I needed to work 10 times harder than my white friends in order to be seen as equal. As a child this made no sense. I thought education was very black and white. If my answers were right, they were right; if they were wrong, they were wrong. Why then would I need to work harder just to receive the same grades?
Black people in the UK are 21 times more likely to have university applications investigated for suspected false or missing information, figures show. The data reveals that 419 black British applicants to undergraduate courses last year were highlighted as a cause for concern, compared to 181 white British applicants, despite there being far fewer black applicants. Further studies show that even when black students come from the same socioeconomic background as their white counterparts, there is still on average a 15% negative disparity in the grades they receive in higher education. Research due to be released this year finds this figure is now significantly worse.
There is a lack of black men in senior positions in top businesses, educational institutions and politics. Even when black men have their foot in the door within organisations, they are not valued as highly as their white counterparts. For all black and ethnic minority employees this amounts to a total loss of £3.2bn a year in wages compared to white colleagues doing the same work. Only about 3% of large companies have reported their ethnic pay gap results.
There are black British males doing exceptionally well in business in the UK. However there is a clear need to tackle the institutional discrimination across the country that is holding many others back. For black men to reach the top of more organisations, they must first be seen and treated as equals.
• Samuel Brooksworth is an account director at the Guardian and a former candidate on BBC One’s The Apprentice
