
# Murder bid probe launched in Greenock after man and woman brutally attacked at their home

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:50:13+00:00**

Author: **Julie Dunnett, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/julie-gilbert/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/murder-bid-probe-launched-greenock-20822951)

An attempted murder probe has been launched in Greenock after a man and a woman were brutally attacked in their home.
Two men carried out the targeted attack at the pair's flat in Belville Street around 8.45pm on Tuesday, November 5.
The 37-year-old woman and 52-year-old man were left critically injured.
Their attackers fled the scene and are believed to have got out of a taxi in Kilmacolm Road, near to Blairmore Road a short time later.
The victims were rushed to the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital where their conditions are described as critical but stable.
Police are appealing for anyone with information to come forward.
Detective Inspector David Wagstaff, of Greenock CID said: “This has been a brutal attack on two people within their own home which we believe was targeted.
“We are following positive lines of enquiry in relation to tracing those involved and would appeal to any member of the public who can assist our investigation to come forward.
“Anyone who witnessed any suspicious behaviour on Belville Street last night, or who may have private CCTV covering the area, is asked to come forward to speak with detectives. Equally any drivers who may have been driving on Belville Street around the time of the incident last night are asked to check any dash-cam footage that can assist our investigation.
“We have a number of addition police patrols in the area today. If you have any information or concerns, please speak to one of these officers.”
Anyone with information is asked to contact Police Scotland on 101 and quote incident number 4391 of 5 November. Alternatively a report can be made to Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
