
# Every T-800 From Every ‘Terminator’ Film, Ranked

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dani Di Placido**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danidiplacido/2019/11/06/every-t-800-from-every-terminator-film-ranked/)

Is the Terminator franchise over? I think after four failed sequel attempts, probably. Hopefully. Reflecting on the highs, the lows, and the offroad twists taken by this franchise, Arnold Schwarzenegger’s T-800 was the only real consistency; other actors came and went, but Schwarzenegger remained the stony face of the franchise. 
But which T-800 was the best? 
(Note - sometimes the T-800 is given a different title, like the T-101 or T-RIP, but for simplicity's sake, let’s just stick to T-800). 

        Terminator: Dark Fate 
      
Let’s start with the worst. From a comedy perspective, “Carl” might be the best thing to happen to the franchise; his very existence is utterly bizarre, a tone-deaf decision that never should have left the writers room. 
While the T-800 grew more human in T2 and Genisys, he still remained a machine, underneath that coating of Arnie-flesh. Dark Fate pushes the humanization of the killing machine to an absurd level, proposing that the T-800 who finally killed John Connor, decided to settle down and raise a family afterwards. 
That’s right - after murdering a young child, Carl craved a sexless marriage and suburban lifestyle, because apparently that’s what a robot assassin would do under such circumstances.
Experimentation and innovation are vital to a franchise that has repeated the exact same story so many times, but turning the T-800 into “Carl” was a bad joke; this would have killed the franchise if it hadn’t already self-destructed, multiple times. 

        Terminator Salvation 
      
Salvation was the sole attempt to move forward from the “robot assassin from the future” plotline, but sadly, wasn’t a particularly memorable or engaging film. 
This dystopian future looks nothing like the wasteland depicted in previous films, but Arnie’s T-800 steps in to reassure viewers that this indeed the Terminator franchise they know and love. This T-800 proves a grave threat to John Connor, and comes extremely close to killing him (would he have moved to the country and started a family afterwards?). 
Like the original movie, this T-800 is a plot device rather than a character, and with its limited screen time, feels almost like an easter egg. It’s flesh-casing is quickly destroyed, meaning this T-800 spends most of its time as the signature metal skeleton.   
Probably because this was a fully CGI creation, a de-aged, digitally replicated Schwarzenegger created during a time when the technology wasn’t quite there yet, making his fight scene feel like a video game. 

        Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines
      
This is Schwarzenegger’s third time playing a T-800, and it’s the point where the act starts to grow stale, essentially a repeat of the “nice Terminator” from T2, without the character growth. 
This T-800 successfully killed John Connor (in the future), and was reprogrammed and sent back in time to protect him. Present day-John is kind of a loser, with a confused attachment to this robot, who was the closest thing to a father-figure he had growing up. 
But it isn’t the same machine; it’s merely the same actor doing a rehash of the robot-human relationship, but failing to capture the magic. This T-800 was older, tired, and attempted to crack a few jokes, but failed to leave an impression; he was in the movie simply because we expected him to be. 
Terminator Genisys  
Genisys repeated many of the plot points of the previous films, but with a twist, and the T-800 known as “Pops” was again a robotic father figure, but one that had raised Sarah Connor from childhood. 
At this point, Schwarzenegger’s age had to be incorporated into the plot, the canonical explanation being that the flesh encased around the machine would grow older, given enough time. As a result, this T-800 seems more human, similar to the other emotionally repressed, overprotective dads that always seem to feature in action movies. 
If anything, this T-800 comes across as an ex-military man, providing comic relief with his inappropriately wide smile. It’s recycled material from T2, overused here, which essentially summarizes every single Terminator sequel made after T2. 
But there’s something strangely likable about this T-800; it’s a silly appearance, but an attempt to shake things up, without drifting too far from the franchise’s roots. 

        The Terminator
      
The classic, original appearance of the T-800. Not a trace of humanity here; the function of this machine is to find and terminate its target - that’s it. It’s hard to imagine this Terminator doing any of the increasingly friendly things it does in later appearances - the flesh-coating is merely aesthetic. 
Schwarzenegger proved himself perfect for this role, his action-figure physique, awkward stiffness, and Austrian accent combine to create a convincing impression of a robot pretending to be human. 
The special effects have aged quite a bit, meaning this T-800 isn’t nearly as intimidating as he used to be, but the concept is solid; there’s a reason he inspired 5 sequels. 

        Terminator 2: Judgment Day
      
The best film in the franchise, by a wide margin, and the most interesting incarnation of the T-800. The Terminator being sent back to protect John Connor was a clever twist (at the time), and as its mission is benevolent, the machine slowly learns to embrace whatever trace of humanity its programming allows. 
Watching the relationship between John, Sarah, and the killer robot blossom is oddly touching, as the machine picks up dumb catchphrases and experiments with social interaction. The clumsiness of its conversation, combined with its ruthless efficiency in dealing with the T-1000, make this T-800 the most likable of them all.
The fact that it sacrificed itself by sinking into molten metal wasn’t just an emotional ending, but firmly shut the door on ever resurrecting the character - at least, this specific version. In sci-fi, dead characters come back to life all the time, especially robots, but this T-800 wasn’t blasted into pieces that could later be reassembled.
Instead, it melted into a puddle, on screen, meaning it could never be reused, not without shattering the suspension of disbelief. As a result, almost every single iteration that followed was a desperate attempt to recreate the flawed father figure from T2; if they could, they would have brought this one back again, and again. 
There’s a catchphrase for that, but I think its been overused.
