
# 20 dirtiest teams in the country - and which 20 clubs are the cleanest?

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Dubas-Fisher, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-dubas-fisher/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/20-dirtiest-teams-country-20-20758705)

Accrington Stanley are the surprise winners of a league of shame showing England's dirtiest team - but where do you side figure?
Clubs such as Leeds United and Millwall have long held reputations for being “dirty”.
But new Mirror Sport analysis of disciplinary records over the last decade suggests that it’s Accrington Stanley who have the worst discipline in English football.
The Lancashire club have picked up 52 red cards in 429 league games over the last 10 seasons.
That works out as one every 8.3 matches.
No club to have played in the top four divisions of English football in each of those campaigns has had players sent off more regularly.
Peterborough have the next worst record at one red every 8.6 games.
Southend come next with one every 8.8 games, then Sunderland (8.9 games), Northampton (9.1 games), Stevenage (9.3 games) and Brighton (9.7 games).
“Dirty Leeds” have only the joint 11th worst record with one red every 10.0 matches.
When it comes to fair play, Derby County top the league.
The Rams have only seen red 17 times in 428 matches, the equivalent of one every 25.2 matches.
Burnley have the next best record with one red every 21.8 games.
The Clarets are followed by Cardiff (one every 21.7 games), Exeter (21.5), Bournemuth (20.6) and Crewe (19.5).

        Team/Games per red card
      
Accrington Stanley/8.3
Peterborough United/8.6
Southend United/8.8
Sunderland/8.9
Northampton Town/9.1
Stevenage/9.3
Brighton & Hove Albion/9.7
Queens Park Rangers/9.8
Watford /9.8
Nottingham Forest/9.9
Carlisle United/10
Leeds United/10
Shrewsbury Town/10
Milton Keynes Dons/10.2
Oldham Athletic/10.2
Swindon Town/10.2
Newcastle United/10.3
Charlton Athletic/10.7
Rochdale/10.7
Portsmouth/10.9

        Team/Games per red card
      
Derby County/25.2
Burnley/21.8
Cardiff City/21.7
Exeter City/21.5
AFC Bournemouth /20.6
Crewe Alexandra/19.5
Doncaster Rovers/19.4
Brentford/18.6
Ipswich Town/18.6
Swansea City/18.6
Liverpool /18.5
Tottenham Hotspur/18.5
Coventry City/17.2
Bristol City/17.1
Manchester United /16.8
Walsall/16.5
Hull City/16.2
Colchester United/15.9
Crystal Palace /15.7
Norwich City/15.7
