
# Arsenal players 'turning to Freddie Ljungberg for guidance' instead of Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:50:23+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-players-turning-freddie-ljungberg-20813518)

Some of the Arsenal youngsters are turning to assistant head coach Freddie Ljungberg for guidance instead of manager Unai Emery, according to reports.
Gunners boss Emery is under increasing pressure in north London, with Arsenal having won just two of their opening nine fixtures in the Premier League.
The Spaniard has assurances from the board that he isn't in immediate danger of getting the sack, but Emery needs to find a winning formula soon.
As previously reported, it has been claimed that some of the youngsters at the club poke fun at their boss at Arsenal's London Colney training base.
And according to football.london, others are turning to Ljungberg for direction because they feel their boss "does not offer clear and consistent instructions".
Emery has been praised for making the effort to speak English in his press conferences, but he is still yet to learn the language fluently.
Former Arsenal striker Robin van Persie recently brought attention to this, and claimed it makes understanding his instructions difficult.
"I've had [Arsene] Wenger, Louis van Gaal, [Sir Alex] Ferguson, so many coaches," said the Dutchman on BT Sport.
"Their main quality was to be clear. If I'm really honest, someone sent me a video of him [Emery] last week trying to explain something, and I couldn't figure out if he was saying 'come, come' or 'come!'.
"That is very important. You have to be clear, you have to be the leader and the leader needs to be clear towards his players."
