
# Not sure of your direction after school or looking to stay local for university?

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:07:14+00:00**

Author: **Dylan Wiggan, https://www.facebook.com/dylanwiggan**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/special-features/not-sure-your-direction-after-17195315)

When finishing school, studying A-Levels at sixth form isn’t a student’s only option. 
They could go to an exciting, innovative college with state-of-the-art facilities including an aircraft hangar, virtual reality lab, industry-standard science labs, an animal care centre, health and care skills suite, hybrid vehicle workshops and much more! 
Solihull College & University Centre offers courses designed with both employment and university in mind. 
An Extended Diploma is the equivalent to 3 A-levels, so many students progress to university level courses at the College, or to universities across the country. Some students prefer to learn in a more practical way, so vocational courses are perfect as they are assessed largely through coursework and practical projects rather than purely through exams like A-Levels.
The College’s courses allow students to gain the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to lead them towards their dream career. The College works closely with industry to ensure students are work-ready. 
For example, computing students have recently been working with Virgin Trains to build a virtual train carriage for use as a safety training tool. Mayor of the West Midlands, Andy Street, launched the partnership and had the chance to experience the students’ work. 
He commented: “The ways in which these skills can be used are endless. That’s what’s so exciting about this. It’s typical of Solihull College & University Centre to be right at the cutting edge of technology.” 
At the College’s upcoming ‘Try it’ Open Events on November 16, school leavers can have a go at as many courses as they like. Over thirty subject areas will be offering the chance to ‘Try it’, along with the opportunity to chat with teaching staff and current students about the options and career pathways available.
John Callaghan, College Principal comments: “What to do after year 11 is a tough decision as there are so many options available. Our courses offer students the chance to take a practical route to university or employment. The open events offer the perfect opportunity to discover our courses and explore our facilities, which are some of the finest in the country.”
The College also offers a range of university level programmes, including many degrees in collaboration with top universities. 
Sue McGregor, Dean of Higher Education comments: “Our university level courses are aimed at adults who would like to get back in to education as a means of career change or progression, as well as students finishing sixth form or college. 
"We offer students the opportunity to earn a top degree locally, without the extra accommodation costs associated with moving away to university. The smaller class sizes and extra support also appeal to many students. Many of our courses are offered either full or part time, allowing students to fit their studies around work or family life.”

        The open events will be taking place on Saturday, November 16, 10am-2pm at Blossomfield and Woodlands Campus. To find out which courses will be represented at each campus and to pre-register for the events, please visit www.solihull.ac.uk
      
