
# Dinos search for stolen soccer jerseys as team heads west for national championship

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:46:08+00:00**

Author: **Sammy Hudes**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/dinos-search-for-stolen-soccer-jerseys-as-team-heads-west-for-national-championship)

As it was supposed to be getting set to take on the country’s best competition this week in Victoria, the University of Calgary Dinos women’s soccer team was hit with an unwelcome distraction when one of its players discovered the entire squad’s uniforms had been stolen.
On Saturday in Edmonton, the team defeated the UBC Thunderbirds, winning the Canada West championship and securing a place in this week’s U Sports national championship.
But that celebration took a turn Monday morning when their jerseys went missing, according to coach Troye Flannery.
As per team tradition, the Dinos player of the game is responsible for taking home the squad’s uniforms to wash them before the next match, he said.
But as fourth-year forward Kelsie MacDonald got ready to head to class Monday, her car, which contained a Dinos Nike kit bag with the jerseys inside, was no longer on her dad’s driveway in the Oakridge neighbourhood.
Flannery said MacDonald quickly realized her car had been stolen, along with the team uniforms needed for the championship tournament. The team is set to leave for Victoria on Tuesday morning.
“I think she’s more concerned about the uniforms than she is about the car,” Flannery said.
The vehicle, a red 2004 Mazda 3, is believed to have been stolen sometime between 8 p.m. on Sunday and 9 a.m. on Monday.
