
# Huge mural to target dodgy money-lenders in Plymouth city centre

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:21:01+00:00**

Author: **Carl Eve**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/huge-mural-target-dodgy-money-3481037)

Citizens Advice Plymouth is appealing for volunteers in the city to help spray a loan shark mural near Plymouth city centre.
The mural has been funded by the England Illegal Money Lending Team using proceeds of crime money seized from convicted loan sharks.
The project will be delivered over two days - November 8 and 9 - with an unveiling event with the Deputy Lord Mayor on Sunday. November 10, at 2.30pm.
The mural aims to create a lasting legacy in Plymouth to discourage people from using loan sharks, who charge obscenely high interest rates, and instead urge them to use safer borrowing methods, such as Credit Unions.
The mural will also feature the 24-hour telephone number to report loan sharks and Citizens Advice Plymouth contact details for debt and budgeting advice.
Tony Quigley, head of the Illegal Money Lending Team said: "Loan sharks spell misery for borrowers, often targeting people at times in their lives when they’re particularly vulnerable, and we are pleased to be working with Citizens Advice Plymouth in cracking down on these ruthless criminals.
"The mural will be a permanent fixture on the North Cross Subway and will serve as a constant reminder of the dangers of borrowing from unauthorised money lenders.  It will also signpost residents in financial difficulties to debt support services.
"We urge people to report any concerns they may have about illegal money lending so we can continue to take action against perpetrators and provide victim support."
Jaroslava Hurtikova, research and campaigns officer at Citizens Advice in Plymouth said: "Citizens Advice Plymouth were delighted to be the only successful applicant in the South West to the Illegal Money Lending team and the Proceeds of Crime fund. Their work around the UK in raising awareness and tackling illegal money lending is well documented and we are proud to continue this in here in Plymouth.
"We are only too aware of the adverse consequences for people who work, live and study in Plymouth of getting into debt with illegal money lenders. We welcomed a member of the Illegal Money lending team whose testimony to our advisors around victim impact and previous cases was harrowing.
"We have worked hard with a local graffiti artist Jon Lilly and artist Harriet Russell to create a hard hitting design to be sprayed this weekend at North Cross subway.
"We still have a few spaces for anyone from Plymouth who wishes to be involved in the spraying over Friday and Saturday and we are delighted to be welcoming the Deputy Lord Mayor this Sunday at 2.30pm"
There will be a project briefing at 5.30pm today - November 5 - at the Citizens Advice office on Mayflower Street for anyone who wants to get involved.
Please register your interest on Eventbrite or contact campaigns@plymouthcab.org.uk if you have any questions about the project.
Anyone with information about loan sharks is urged to contact the lllegal Money Lending Team on the 24-hour hotline 0300 555 2222 or visit www.stoploansharks.co.uk
