
# Akshay Kumar’s ‘Housefull 4’ collects Rs 13 crore in second weekend

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:54:55+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/akshay-kumars-housefull-4-collects-rs-13-crore-in-second-weekend/articleshow/71885944.cms)

The euphoria of ‘Housefull 4’ refuses to die down as the film is enjoying a dream run at the box office. The multi-starrer comedy hit the screens on the occasion of Diwali and since then has set the cash registers ringing out loud. According to the latest report on Boxofficeindia.com, ‘Housefull 4’ has pocketed Rs 13-13.5 crore on Sunday taking its second weekend total collection to Rs 31 crore nett plus. This impressive figure is much higher than the second week collection of ‘Kesari’ which made just Rs 6-7 crore nett and even other films like ‘Total Dhamaal’ and ‘Super 30’. ‘Housefull 4’ has also managed to beat the second weekend collection of Hrithik Roshan starrer ‘War’. Housefull 4 Movie Review : Not so full of comedy
Despite a successful second weekend, the growth recorded by ‘Housefull 4’ was very less than other hit film. However, the comedy drama managed to rake in massive numbers in mass circuits due to the four day holiday of Diwali.
In Delhi NCR and East Punjab markets ‘Housefull 4’ didn’t manages to record a big growth on Saturday but Sunday emerged as a successful day for the film. Even in Gujarat/Saurashtra circuits the film has registered a flat weekend with a collection of Rs 5.75 crore nett, which is huge because few films achieve this record even in its first weekend at the box office. In 10 days ‘Housefull 4’ has managed to rake in a total of Rs 168 crore nett, from which Rs 50 crore were collected in the first weekend itself.
‘Housefull 4’ features an ensemble cast of Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol and Pooja Hegde. Directed by Farhad Samji, the film clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made in China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
