
# Dad wants to 'immortalise' his sperm by turning it into a vasectomy ring

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:50:31+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/weird-news/dad-wants-immortalise-sperm-turning-20817280)

Do you know someone that could help make a vasectomy ring?
This is the question one British dad is asking and it is just as bizarre as it sounds.
The unnamed man, who has five kids, is preparing to have a vasectomy at the end of November but hopes to "immortalise" his live sperm before then in a piece of jewellery.
This ring, will then be given as an amusing Christmas gift to his wife - if he can get one made in time.
 
The London-based dad says he and his wife are always pranking each other with unusual gifts and he thinks this one could be the best yet.
In order to see his idea become a reality, the man has contacted online local services marketplace Bark.com.
He said: "To cut to the chase I'm looking for a jeweller who can put my sperm into a ring which I'm going to give my wife for Christmas.
"I know this is super weird, but I'm due to get a vasectomy at the end of November and I wanted to do something funny with the last few living sperm I've got, kind of like a keepsake of my manhood.
 
"The plan is to give the ring to my wife on Christmas day, wait for her to tell me it's beautiful, let her wear it for a couple of hours and then tell her what it's actually made of."
He added: "So you don't think I'm a complete nutter, my wife and I have been together for more than 20 years no, have five kids (hence the vasectomy haha!) and since day one have been pulling pranks on each other.
"I know this type of jewellery can be quite expensive, so I've set aside around £1,500 for the ring, I'm not really looking to spend any more than that."
The man claims to have been looking for a jeweller to help for a month, to no avail.
 
Kai Feller, co-founder of  Bark.com  said: "This is definitely one of the weirdest requests we’ve received in a while, but as always we’re happy to help our customers find a professional who can facilitate their needs, no matter how obscure!
"Some might disapprove, but if people are having rings made out of breast milk and human ashes, why can’t sperm be made into one as well? We urge anyone with the skills to create this type of ring to get in touch with us."
If you know someone who can help visit www.bark.com/blog/can-you-help-this-man-make-a-sperm-vasectomy-ring/
