
# Dele Alli will return to top form, asserts Mauricio Pochettino

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:03:37+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/02/dele-alli-will-return-to-top-form-asserts-mauricio-pochettino?utm_medium=rss)


        Tottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino has backed midfielder Dele Alli to return to top form and at the same time urged the critics to remain patient with the England star. Alli has struggled to produce fine displays in the Spurs shirt this term causing a dip in confidence of the youngster.
      
Mauricio Pochettino has told everyone to remain calm about Dele Alli’s poor form and has given support to the midfielder during tough times. Pochettino also said that Alli will return to top form in the near future. Alli has scored 43 Premier League goals in 134 appearances since he burst onto the scene aged 19 four seasons ago.
The England international had a terrific start to life at Spurs and his burst of form earned him two PFA-young players awards. A series of injuries since he featured for England at the 2018 World Cup in Russia has hampered his growth. The 23-year-old is still to rekindle his form and produce impressing displays that he used to produce before.
“We need to remember that Dele is still so young and the demand and pressure is massive for him. Everyone expects big things - he's English, he's an international but is still 23 years old. He was fantastic and of course, he's dropped a little bit in performance but we need to help and back him. He needs to pay attention and be focused to try to improve and be strong again and perform in the way everyone expects,” the Argentine said to the Sky Sports.
The midfielder has played 523 minutes of football for Spurs this season but has failed to score on more than one occasion. The North London club is set to take on Everton on Sunday at Goodison Park.
