
# Plymouth Co-op reopens after ceiling collapse

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:24:46+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/plymouth-co-op-reopens-after-3510730)

A Co-op petrol station has reopened after the ceiling collapsed last night forcing the store to close.
A customer at the Co-op in Staddiscombe sent us footage and told Plymouth Live yesterday evening that he was shopping in the store when water began gushing from the ceiling.
Customers were told to leave and the store was closed.
Jordan, aged 22, saw the ceiling "bowing" before it collapsed and water started pouring all over the floor.
Jordan said: "I was just getting a quick drink when a bloke told a member of staff there was a bit of a leak through the ceiling. I went round into the aisle, being nosey, and saw water dripping through the light fitting.
"I pulled my mate back as I could see the ceiling bowing and then told a member of staff there's no way the store can stay open, in case the whole ceiling comes down."
He said: "I used to work at a supermarket and a leak like this caused an electrical fire. With that I went to the till where two ladies were serving and told them they need to get people out. One lady said, 'OK, everyone out'. The store is now completely closed."
This morning, a spokesperson for the store has confirmed that it has now re-opened as usual and the flooding "wasn't anything major".
Elsewhere in Plymouth, there were reports of flooding as bad weather and storms battered the region.
