
# Oleksandr Zinchenko celebrates wildly after Kyle Walker's late Man City winner

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:37:00+00:00**

Author: **Ned Keating**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/oleksandr-zinchenko-celebrates-wildly-after-20802391)

Kyle Walker's late winner for Manchester City against Southampton sent the Etihad Stadium crowd into raptures - including team-mate Oleksandr Zinchenko .
The defending Premier League champions had to come from behind to defeat the Saints after James Ward-Prowse had put the visitors ahead early in the first half.
Sergio Aguero drew Pep Guardiola's men level in the 70th minute, before Walker struck four minutes from time as City claimed an eighth league triumph of the season.
The winning goal sparked wild celebrations in the stands at the Etihad, with Walker's fellow defender Zinchenko also getting in on the action.
The Ukraine international is currently sidelined until December after having surgery on a knee problem, but looked surprisingly sprightly after Walker scored late on against Southampton.
The 22-year-old uploaded a clip to his Instagram account where he could be seen cheering after watching his fellow full-back net a crucial goal for the top flight giants.
It's not the first time Zinchenko has been seen celebrating wildly in recent weeks having gone viral after helping his country qualify for Euro 2020.
Footage emerged of the City star hugging and kissing his girlfriend, Ukrainian TV presenter Vlada Sedan.
The 22-year-old also ambushed the set where pundits were giving their take on a 2-1 win over Portugal and also loudly screamed down a camera.
Zinchenko's latest brilliant celebration could be justified given the potential significance of the goal, with Walker himself aware how tight the title race with Liverpool could be.
The defending champions are already six points adrift of the leaders, but knows there is still a long way to go until this year's crown is won.
'There are still so many games to play in the Premier League. Obviously, a lot of people talk about the title race, but anything can happen in football as you have just seen," said the ex-Tottenham man.
'We just need to keep doing our job, keep getting the three points and that's all we can do really.'
