
# Dad of Clutha Vaults victim brands Fatal Accident Inquiry an “utter disgrace”

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:32:34+00:00**

Author: **Gregor Farquharson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gregor-farquharson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/dad-clutha-vaults-victim-brands-20834283)

A Fatal Accident Inquiry (FAI) into the Clutha tragedy has been branded an “utter disgrace” by the distraught dad of an East Kilbride victim.
Mark O’Prey, from St Leonards, was one of 10 people killed when a police helicopter plummeted into the Clutha Vaults on November 29, 2013.
Now, six agonising years on, Mark’s devastated dad, Ian, 73, has slammed the findings of Sheriff Principal Craig Turnbull, who oversaw the FAI, and wants to see a Public Inquiry.
It was concluded by the FAI that the tragedy happened because Captain David Traill had ignored the five warnings he received during the flight.
He said that was a “conscious decision” which had “fatal consequences” for the 10 people who died.
 
Heartbreakingly, the report also outlines the final hours of Mark’s life – something which Ian said he and his wife, Mona, found extremely difficult.
It says window cleaner Mark, 44, died between 11pm on November 29 and 1am the following morning from severe injuries to his head, neck and chest after being trapped in the rubble but “regrettably” no further conclusions could be drawn due to the quality of evidence before the Inquiry.
But it said when dad-of-one Mark was first seen by paramedics he was “moving his head and mumbling” but his breathing was shallow.
However, furious Ian told the News the FAI was a “total whitewash” with Captain Traill “nothing but a scapegoat”.
“The last six years have all been for nothing and it is disgusting that the pilot has been left to carry the can. I still believe the fault lies with the helicopter and not the pilot but for political and other reasons the truth may never come out,” he said.
“A Public Inquiry may do that as there are not the same restrictions in place as a FAI but I am not confident that would ever happen.
“As angry as we are, sadly I am not surprised. I have said from the beginning I don’t believe the authorities wanted to find out what really happened in the first place.
“Right at the beginning Sheriff Turnbull said his role was not to apportion blame but that’s exactly what he has done.
 
“We feel Mark and the people who died have never really mattered - the authorities couldn’t give a damn. The FAI report is over 100 pages of nothing and the best place for it is hanging up in my toilet.”
The Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB) special report in 2014 found that both engines of the helicopter “flamed out” with a final report finding the main cause of accident to be mismanagement of the fuel system by the pilot.
In Sheriff Turnbull’s FAI findings, he said there was “no doubt” that the crash had happened because the helicopter’s engines “flamed out” due to a lack of fuel.
The fuel supply tanks had been depleted because Capt Traill had failed to ensure that at least one of the aircraft’s fuel transfer pump switches was on.
“The central question for the inquiry is why did that happen?”said Sheriff Turnbull.
“The answer is a simple one. Capt Traill ignored the low fuel warnings he received.”
He said the accident would not have happened if the pilot had followed the normal procedure for dealing with low fuel warnings.
He added: “Capt Traill took a chance that the low fuel warnings he received were erroneous.”
 
But the Sheriff criticised the time taken to “lodge a notice of inquiry” and said the Crown Office’s Helicopter Incidents Investigation Team were “not sufficiently resourced” to enable the FAI to start sooner.
Ian added: “It has been six years of hell for my family - we will never get over losing Mark and my wife couldn’t even bring herself to read all the findings. It is all circumstantial - there was no black box so how could the Sheriff reach the conclusions he did? To this day helicopters are still flying around with no black boxes.”
A Crown Office spokesperson said: “This was an exceptionally complex and challenging investigation and the Crown acknowledges that the time taken from the tragedy occurring to convening the inquiry was longer than desirable, and that this compounded the distress suffered by bereaved relatives.”
A spokesman for the aircraft’s manufacturer, Airbus Helicopters, said it was “deeply saddened by this tragic accident and the heavy loss of life”.
