
# A Colorful Palm Beach Regency Gets Dressed Down By A Fashion Icon

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Flamer**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/keithflamer/2019/10/31/a-colorful-palm-beach-regency-gets-dressed-down-by-a-fashion-icon/)

Fashion designer Lisa Perry’s fun career has come full circle—naturally, it’s the polka dot master’s favorite shape. Turns out, her fashion empire, inspired by bold ’60s and ’70s art and design, translates quite well to her new interior design business, Lisa Perry Homes.
Perry’s first project reinvents 3 Via Los Incas, a 1980-built Regency by Robert Gottfried on Palm Beach Island, Florida. This redesign is a fun house. And there’s no doubt Perry’s design signature is on the estate even if Gottfried’s name may grace the exterior plaque. The home is listed by Douglas Elliman’s Burt Minkoff for $10.9 million.
It’s not often a formal Regency-style house gets dressed down. The 5,686-square-foot house spans six bedrooms and six-and-a-half baths on a 17,489-square-foot lot on Palm Beach island. Perry fearlessly put her spin on the home, imaginatively mixing bold, primary colors and opening the home up with interior and exterior living spaces for a casual, modern feel.
Just two blocks from the ocean, the secluded home sits along a 10-house private stretch of Regency estates–seven of which include deeded beach access. Located on a 10-house private street (seven with deeded beach access). This street dead-ends with two oceanfront houses, one of which was owned by pre-Castro Cuban president Fulgencio Batista’s second wife. The 3 Via Los Incas house has only had two prior owners.
It’s Perry’s first project since Assouline published her interior design coffee table book—Lisa Perry: Fashion-Homes-Design, which explored her design, home and fashion passion through her art-filled personal residences, creative spaces, and grand escapes. The book’s success inspired her new business.
“My new business involves finding, buying and renovating homes,” she says. “I then fill them with everything I love—from new and vintage furniture and lighting to art work and M&M’s!—all with the idea that the buyer can move right in with as little as a suitcase.”
So does this mean life really is like a box of chocolates? Fun and sophisticated Regency’s are strange, unnatural bedfellows. Somehow Perry makes it work. You could call this style Fun-phisticated.
Perry infused hardware, art and furnishing sourced from her travels through the USA and France. The intricate wrought iron front door is a ruse. Once inside, the interior feel-good vibe is straight out of an Austin Powers movie—expansive spaces designed for entertaining and relaxing. 
“One is constantly reminded of Lisa's love of circles and dots throughout the house— from the French door hardware, to the Italian wall tiles used in the powder room, and the kitchen,” says Minkoff. “Even the Leicht kitchen cabinetry has custom circular cabinet hardware.”
The bright white kitchen and dining area are offset by vibrant color splashes and textured colorless polka dots. Sliding glass doors reveal the backyard patio pool with primary color fencing, umbrella loungers, and a modern polished chrome handrail arcing as an open invitation to take a dip.
With ornate motifs deep-sixed into yesteryear, the home comes with furniture and whimsical accessories (“Love” and “Hello” pillows, geometric prints, whicker chairs and lamps), but still offer’s a blank canvas for a new owner to furnish in their own vision of a modernized Regency. The house also boasts fabulous walk-in closets (of course).
“It is safe to say that circles and dots are a running theme throughout my homes and my life,” she says. “Each time I see them, the positive impact is immediate, and they make me smile.”
The intriguing part is why Perry chose to redesign such a Regency. Fun and formal make strange, unnatural bedfellows. But there’s there’s good reason why Perry chose a Regency as her launch project—she lives in one. She shares an oceanfront Gottfried Regency residence with husband Richard Berry (owner of Barney’s) in Palm Beach.
Robert Gottfried, a prolific real estate builder of more than 500 luxury homes in the Palm Beach area, many in his signature French Regency style (formal rooms, ornate decor, marble floors, sunken tubs) that remain in demand today. These estates combined a stately aesthetic combined with classical architecture like coining, ornate ironwork, Greek and Roman columns, statues and flat mansard roofs.
“Regency's were a very glamorous style of architecture which was popular in the late 1950's through the early 1980’s,” says Minkoff. “They took their design aesthetic from British architecture in the late 19th Century. Think Regent Place, Eaton Square. Bob Gottfried developed some of the best and most coveted Regency’s.
Gottfried’s elegant Regency’s distinguished from Palm Beach’s Mediterranean Revival homes and significantly contributed to the city’s architectural landscape. He was so influential, the homes he developed carried his branded bronze plaque signature on the exterior.
The value of Regency’s changed through the decades as new generations redefined affluent housing. Summer Baby Boomers in the Hamptons led more casual lifestyles, ditching sapphires, ball gowns, ties and tuxedos in favor of pricey shoes, accessories and watches with jeans.
Today, affluent people might entertain in their workout clothes or a Lisa Perry dress, Minkoff says. He predicts people will entertain with more “charity barbecues than galas and balls.” Regency’s recall a bygone era of sentimental sophistication. But the estates remain prized.
“Regency's were popular in Los Angeles too,” says Minkoff. “The Palm beach lifestyle used be far more formal and grand. People dressed for dinner and entertained formally. The furnishings were more traditional and the windows were swathed in drapes. Today's generation doesn't want that.”
“There have been other Regency renovations, but I don't believe anyone has had as dramatic a change as this one,” says Minkoff. “Lisa has cleaned up the exterior but totally turned the traditional concept of a Regency on it's head.” And she did so with a smile.
