
# Lyra Meets the Polar Bears in New His Dark Materials Episode 2 Promo

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:16:38+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471038-lyra-meets-the-polar-bears-in-new-his-dark-materials-episode-2-promo)

HBO’s His Dark Materials fantasy series has just made its debut in the US, and now the television network has released a new promo for the upcoming Episode 2. Next week, the young protagonist Lyra will have to deal with her new life in London, which is far from meeting her expectations. The synopsis of “The Idea of North” reads as follows:
Lyra arrives to her new life in London, determined to find Roger with Mrs. Coulter’s help. The Gyptians continue their search for the missing children and the elusive Gobblers.
You can watch the new His Dark Materials Episode 2 promo in the player below.
The His Dark Materials cast also includes Dafne Keen (Logan), James McAvoy (Dark Phoenix), as well as Ruth Wilson (Luther) and Lin-Manuel Miranda (Mary Poppins Returns). In a parallel universe where all humans have animal companions called dæmons, the young Lyra, living a sheltered life among the academics at Jordan College, Oxford, discovers a dangerous secret.
Other cast members include Anne-Marie Duff (Suffragette) as Ma Costa, James Cosmo (Game of Thrones) as Farder Coram, Lucien Msamati (Richard II) as John Faa, Mat Fraser (Cast Offs) as Raymond Van Geritt, as well as Geoff Bell (War Horse) as Jack Verhoeven, and Simon Manyonda (King Lear) as Benjamin de Ruyter.
Part of Philip Pullman’s trilogy was previously transported to the big screen in The Golden Compass. The 2007 movie starred Nicole Kidman, Daniel Craig, as well as Dakota Blue Richards, and Eva Green. Chris Weitz’s movie, though, covered just Pullman’s first novel, also called Northern Lights.
The next episode of His Dark Materials will air on November 11 on HBO. What do you think about His Dark Materials premiere? Let us know your impression in the comments section below.
