
# The Apprentice Episode 6: Theme Park - Key Business Lessons for Entrepreneurs

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bianca Miller-Cole**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/biancamillercole/2019/11/06/the-apprentice-episode-6-theme-park-key-business-lessons-for-entrepreneurs/)

It’s Week Six on The Apprentice and Lord Sugar is expecting the candidates to reach new heights.He has sent them to Thorpe Park, home to the U.K.’s most popular roller coasters, where he informs them—appearing via hologram—that this week’s task is to create and market a brand-new Rollercoaster.
They will need to design and brand their new attraction for the theme park, which overnight will be turned into a 4-D ride. The teams then pitch to the park’s top talent who will decide which ride they think is best.
During the ride design, one team’s overly ambitious concept ends up hurtling them into a total spin, while miscommunication sends the other team well off track.
But there is no wilder ride than Lord Sugar’s boardroom—for one candidates, it’s the end of the line.
This task required a number of key skills that are essential in business—below I have articulated each skill and its relevance in real life business scenarios.

        1)   Leadership / trust
      
It is becoming increasingly evident that leadership and trust is an issue amongst the current set of candidates.
In this task and is business, leadership ability and trust in your leader goes hand in hand with personal brand.
If your team don’t like or trust you, they won’t put your future in your hands.
Then if the team leader doesn’t trust you, they will not and cannot nominate you to take on additional responsibility (i.e. sub team leader). Sometimes as a leader, you have to make tough leadership decisions... these are decisions that may upset other members of the team. That is one side of leadership.
That said, ignoring a team member is not acceptable, your team has to feel that their opinion is welcomed and listened to. (Which from my own experience on the show can be tough because some people make some really silly or insignificant ideas–I won’t name any names...)
I have to say that in this task Scarlett did a good job at managing personalities and moving the team around, when she saw the team dynamic wasn’t working. This is a good leadership trait, if it isn’t working try to understand why–if you are under tough time constraints then make the moves necessary to get the team moving in the right direction.

        2)   Leadership vs Dictation
      
Lottie versus Thomas—my only words for their constant contemptuous exchange is … awkward.
Lottie has power issues, that much is clear. It may be a result of her age or it may simply be a personality trait. But a good leader has the ability to lead from the front and push back from the back. Yes you have to delegate, yes you may have to make decisions that override your team members but it isn’t always what you do. It is the way in which you do it. A large proportion of personal success comes from personal style and delivery.

        3)   Branding
      

        Design
      
Designing a product can be difficult but it is really important that you look at the final output and compare it with your initial concept and check they align. It is easy to be so close to a project that you cannot see the gleamingly obvious.
In this task for example, if they had taken a moment and taken a step back they would have seen that a green image with a hand will always resemble aliens.
Sometimes simplicity is key.

        Names
      
Insomnia is a living nightmare for those who suffer from it. So not a bad idea in principle but it is the execution of the name that required work.
Naming is hard because you have to ensure it is unique enough to stand out, it is possible to trademark, the social media handles are available, the domain is available etc. and then you have to make sure it “makes sense.”

        USPs
      
Remember to showcase your key selling points, if you have made something record breaking then tell people! Shout it from the rooftops, this is your moment to positively differentiate yourself from others by highlighting your unique selling point.
Thrill seekers and extreme riders want to know what type of adrenaline opportunity they will receive from your ride, in most cases if you go to theme park you cannot go on all of the rides so you have to make a choice with regards to which rides to go on– thus you want to make your USP abundantly clear!

        4)   Pitch
      
Pitching is an art form, as is public speaking and in business it is a necessary evil. From your personal “elevator pitch” to pitching your business to clients or for funding... Life is a pitch!
When you are at that stage that you are thinking of pitching:
-      Don’t dress up and act if you are not an actor.
-      Take feedback, accept the feedback, and suggest that you will work on this.
-      Don’t lie… sounds obvious but clearly is isn’t.
Most importantly before any major pitches for clients or funding, make sure that you have some “proof of concept,” that you have undertaken focus groups, collated consumer feedback and spoken to potential clients.
There are a few things to think about from this task in addition to the above, so here is a round of quick fire bullet points:
-  Has Aisha spoken yet? That is the question that most watching will wonder, I will say in her defence she has probably been edited out in favour of the drama that is Lottie and Thomas. This is a lesson on how to “Lean In”–I am a big believer in only speaking when you have value to offer but in addition you have to step up. As a woman or person who has other stronger characters around you do need to find your way to step up, get a seat at the table and have your voice heard. This will be a very valuable life lesson for Aisha.
-   When you pitch, people are not stupid so do not assume they are. You do not have to dress up to pitch (yes this is tv).
-  Lottie is the type of person you wouldn’t wish to be stuck in a lift with. Wow.. she referred to someone as “deadwood”—a person that she wasn’t even on her side of a team with. Bizarre. Why did she think her opinion was warranted? Dean is right, she is not a people person.
- Thomas certainly has a little something–again we see how charm, charisma and a spark in his eye works well. As I keep saying in sales people buy from people. And you can see how personality plays its part.

        *Spoiler Alert* If you haven't watched this episode, stop reading now.
      
In what appears to be a boardroom first, four people ended up in the boardroom.
An important lesson in the boardroom was certainly that, in business you have to be likeable, assertive, capable and determined! Even if Lottie doesn’t think so, again, she is wrong. The likeability factor in business goes a very long way! Why on earth would anyone wish to work with someone who is not a nice person to work with?
Side note: Lord Sugar did a coin flip and somehow the winner of the coin flip ended up as project manager? Surely if you win a coin flip you get to choose the other person or decided whether to do it or not?
Aisha got fired.. no one really noticed. Bless her.
Well... that was a rollercoaster!
See you next week
