
# University Press, Oando, Unity lead gainers’ chart on Friday

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:53:30+00:00**

Author: **Samuel Oyekanmi**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/01/university-press-oando-unity-lead-gainers-chart-on-friday/)

University Press Plc, Oando Plc, Unity Bank, Flour Mills and Lafarge Africa Plc led the gainers’ chart at the end of trading on Friday at the Nigerian Stock Exchange.
Details: University Press Plc was the best performing stock today having gained 10% to close at N1.43 while Oando Plc gained 8.36% to close at N3.37 followed by Unity bank Plc gaining 7.41% to close at N0.58. Flour mills Nig. Plc gained 6.69% to close at N15.15 while Lafarge Africa Plc rounded off the chart with a gain of 5.26% to close at N14.
Meanwhile, NSE ended the week’s trading session in negative territory, as it shed N5 billion when the All-Share index dipped by 0.24% closing at 26,293.3 basis points. However, the total market capitalisation gained 0.017% as it closed at N25.40 trillion compared to N25.395 trillion recorded yesterday.

        Top Losers:
      
Champion Breweries shed the highest on the bourse of the market today as it lost 10% to close at N0.9 followed by Nigerian breweries Plc which lost 7% to close today at N46.5. law Union Insurance Plc despite gaining on Wednesday has lost for the second consecutive day as it declined by 6.67% to close at N0.42.
Stanbic IBTC lost by 5.41% to close at N35 while Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc declined by 5% to close the market week at N0.38.

        Top trades by Volume
      
For the third time this week, Banks dominate the list of most actively traded stocks on the stock market today. Zenith Bank Plc was the most actively traded stock on the bourse having traded in 76.5 million shares valued at N1.30 billion in 444 deals followed by UBA which traded 65.04 million shares valued at N375.99 million in 365 deals.
Guaranty Trust bank traded in 41.1 million shares valued at N1.02 billion in 339 deals, Access bank plc traded 14.8 million shares valued at N113.9 million in 234 deals while Fidelity bank plc completes the list having traded in 13.4 million shares worth N23.6 million in 47 deals.
