
# 'Best performance' - Aston Villa fans loved this man's Liverpool display

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:26:46+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-liverpool-premier-league-17191689)

Aston Villa fans have been full of praise for Mahmoud Trezeguet for his performance in the 2-1 defeat to Liverpool at Villa Park today.
Jurgen Klopp's European champions inflicted a second defeat in row on Villa after the 3-0 loss at Manchester City last time out.
The Reds went 1-0 down thanks to a strike from Trezeguet, who volleyed in from John McGinn's cross for his first goal since his £9 million move from Turkish side Kasimpasa in July.
Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane turned the game around for Liverpool, netting in the 87th and 94th minutes respectively to secure a big three points for their side that leaves them top of the League and six points clear of City.
 
Trezeguet drew plenty of praise for his maiden strike on social media but his all-round performance was also commented upon.

        Here's the pick of the reaction...
      
@ slacken9 : Long live the new king of Egypt
@ Wrighti1 : Trezeguet outstanding.Set the bar now. Keep it up & keep the shirt.
@ matty8avfc2 : Trezeguet was superb today but needed to come off with 10mins to go, he was knackered!!
@ antonyruston : I thought trezeguet was awesome today, ran his heart out
@ SioRegan : Marvelous and Trezeguet were outstanding
@ FrailLee : Stand out players for me Marvelous and Trezeguet.
@ farria_c : Trezeguet’s best performance for the club, hope he kicks on now
@ Elmz_27 : Salah who?
@ LilHaydar : Better than Salah
@ Husseeein_H : The Egyptian prince
@ Baileyf98x : Our Egyptian son
