
# Connect with news in multiple languages with Google News

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Robb Wei**

Original: [Google](https://www.blog.google/products/news/news-multiple-languages/)

Today, more than 60 percent of people around the world speak and consume news across two or more languages. Finding articles in these languages can be challenging, since it requires you to search for topics across various apps and websites. To help solve this problem, we’ve built a new feature in Google News that will provide access to news articles from multiple languages and countries from around the world, all within one app.
With this update, you’ll be able to include content in two languages together within your news app, and benefit from the headlines and stories in each language to learn more about a culture or to catch up on what’s going on elsewhere. For example, this means you can stay up to date on the news in English and Hindi at the same time, and enjoy articles from local news outlets in both languages alongside one another. You’ll be able to connect with any of your favorite publishers and topics from anywhere around the world.
We’ll still apply your previous personalization preferences, giving you the most relevant articles and topics you care about across your language choices, so you’ll never miss a story.
This expanded capability is now available for the Google News app on Android and iOS, across  141 countries and 41 language options. To activate this feature, navigate to your language settings in your Google News app.  
There’s still lots more to do to help connect people with quality and trustworthy news on the issues they care about, but we hope today’s update will make it easier to connect with different cultures and perspectives from the comfort of your device.
