
# (Update: OnePlus 6 too) Android 10 rolling out for OnePlus 6T

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:52:28+00:00**

Author: **Ryne Hager**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/04/android-10-oneplus-6t-oxygenos-10/)


        Update 1: 2019/11/02 2:12am PDTThe update has been officially announced on the OnePlus Forums. It's a staged rollout coming to a limited number of devices today, then ramping up to all users in
         Update 2: 2019/11/04 2:54pm PSTRolling out to OnePlus 6 following delay
      
Reports have been trickling in for the last couple of hours that the stable Android 10 update for the OnePlus 6T has been rolling out — apparently without any fanfare or an associated announcement at the OnePlus forums, as is customary. In addition to bringing all the Android 10 features you can expect, the OxygenOS 10 update for the 6T also includes the company's Game Space feature and the "Contextual display" ambient display feature.
This timing corresponds to the best-case scenario for the company's initially projected roadmap, which claimed the OnePlus 6T and 6 would get Android 10 sometime in November. Today, being the first of the month, would be the earliest that could happen. It also follows the Open Beta release late last month.
The full changelog for this update (which mostly matches the previous Open Beta) is just below:
System
Full Screen Gestures
Game Space
Contextual display
Message
About half of the log, by volume, corresponds to general Android 10-related changes like the new gesture navigation system, enhanced permissions model, and icon shape customization. A few of the features are OnePlus/OxygenOS-specific and new to the 6T, like the keyword blocking in the OnePlus Messages app and the contextual display feature (previously called smart display), which was one of my favorite features our recent OnePlus 7T review.
As usual, the update is rolling out in a limited fashion for the time being. None of my own devices see it on their own. Some have had luck pulling it down using a VPN to connect to one of OnePlus' test markets, like Germany. You can also grab the update for the 6T right now via the third-party Oxygen Updater app (also available on APK Mirror). Note that there are a few reports of image verification failing upon download, though I didn't have an issue, myself.
It's a pretty big update in size, too, clocking in at around 1.8GB for what we assume is the full image. You might want to get on Wi-Fi before you pull it down. As warned in the Oxygen Updater app, if you converted a T-Mobile branded 6T to the international model, you might want to hold off updating until others have verified if there are any issues, since the previous Open Beta had some serious problems for converted devices. (Update: Reports appear to indicate the converted T-Mobile units don't have a problem this time around, though YMMV.)
At the time of writing, the update doesn't appear to be rolling out for the older OnePlus 6 just yet, though historically updates come to the pair of phones at around the same time. More anecdotally, my OnePlus 6 doesn't see any available update in either settings or Oxygen Updater, and reports online appear to be limited to the 6T for the time being. Our friends at XDA claim the folks running the Oxygen Updater app have seen it start to roll out for the OnePlus 6. (Update: The Oxygen Updater developers have told us that XDA's coverage was in error.)
We'll be sure to let you know when the update is spotted in the wild on that device, or if an official announcement lands for the update.

          Update 1: 2019/11/02 2:12am PDT by Rita El Khoury
        
The update has been officially announced on the OnePlus Forums. It's a staged rollout coming to a limited number of devices today, then ramping up to all users in a few days once OnePlus is sure there aren't any critical bugs.
Rollout for the OnePlus 6 may have hit a snag and could suffer a small delay, though.
End of Update

            Update 2: 2019/11/04 2:54pm PST by Ryne Hager
          

            Rolling out to OnePlus 6 following delay
          
The update is FINALLY rolling out for the OnePlus 6 as well. We can confirm that the download is now available in the Oxygen Updater app on our own devices, and it should be slowly rolling out via the traditional means as well.
End of Update
