
# Referees need to do more with VAR, claims Rafael Benitez

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:40:20+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/referees-need-to-do-more-with-var-claims-rafael-benitez?utm_medium=rss)


        After another series of VAR controversies in the Premier League, former Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has admitted that the referees have to do more with the technology. The Spaniard, who currently manages Dalian Yifang, also went on to admit that changes will be made with UEFA looking into it.
      
With the VAR used in the Premier League for the first time this season numerous expected referee errors, like diving inside the box and other issues, are expected to decline. However, while there has been some change to the way football in England has taken place, more often than not, VAR has led to controversies across the board.
But former Liverpool and Newcastle United manager Rafael Benitez went on to admit that while the technology is perfect, it’s the referees that need to adapt. The Spaniard, who is currently in charge of the Chinese Super League side Dalian Yifang, also added that the on-field referees are being paid to do a job and not wait for someone else to make a decision for them which is what has caused the problems.
“I’m 100 per cent in favour of that [VAR]. What we’re seeing now is mistake after mistake and the problem is that too many people are analysing incidents. There is confusion about what to do or who is making decisions. The idea shouldn’t be to take those decisions away from referees, it should be about making it easier for them to decide, giving them more responsibility rather than less,” Benitez told the Athletic.
“It’s too easy for referees or their assistants to stop making decisions because they’re worried about being wrong, to wait for VAR. Then you get the delays and the lack of clarity we’re seeing now. We have professional officials and they’re paid to take decisions, not to wait and see what another person sitting in an office somewhere thinks on their behalf.”
A former Liverpool manager, Benitez managed the Reds between 2004 and 2010 with the club finishing as high as second during his tenure. However, while they did fail to win a Premier League title before Benitez eventually left at the end of the 2009/10 season, he did manage to win the Champions League under some incredible circumstances. 
That’s what Jurgen Klopp has done with Liverpool so far, and Benitez went on to admit that the club can end their title drought. He also added that while nothing is ever guaranteed in the Premier League, the Reds have the experience, a brilliant team, and a manager that can take them all the way despite Manchester City’s shadow looming over them.
“Liverpool are six points clear at the top of the Premier League and they are favourites to win the title. It has been a long time coming. Jurgen Klopp’s side have the intensity, they have the quality, they can play counter-attack or they can sustain their attacking. They have a lot of very good players and they’re extremely competitive, but nothing is guaranteed just yet.
“After last year, Liverpool have more experience and that’s always a positive, but City have grown used to being at the top. They know what it takes to win. They also have fantastic talent. What Liverpool possess is the advantage and they certainly have the potential to go one step further, but this is football and it’s far too early to talk about what will happen in May. Nothing is definitive in November,” concluded Benitez.
