
# Wall Street's trade-fueled record run pauses

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:05:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/business/wall-street-s-trade-fueled-record-run-pauses-12066288?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

U.S. stocks took a breather on Tuesday, weighed down partially by losses in healthcare stocks, after a rally driven by hopes of a trade truce between Washington and Beijing propelled the three main indexes to record highs a day earlier.
REUTERS: The three main U.S. indexes took a breather on Tuesday after expectations of a U.S.-China trade deal propelled them to record highs in the previous session.
The benchmark S&P 500 and Nasdaq indexes have risen in seven of the past 10 sessions. The S&P 500 healthcare sector shed 0.51per cent on Tuesday, while technology stocks slipped 0.15per cent after two days of gains.
China is pushing President Donald Trump to remove more tariffs as part of the "phase one" deal, which may be signed this month, according to latest reports.
"It sounded like we were done with a Phase one deal but now it seems to be coming with certain caveats, like a list of demands from China, including a rollback in tariffs, just adds to the tail risks of a deal being signed," said Yousef Abbasi, global market strategist at INTL FCStone Financial in New York.
Apart from hopes of a resolution to the trade war, a largely better-than-expected third-quarter earnings season, the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut and an upbeat October jobs report have fueled the recent rally on Wall Street.
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq closed at record highs for the second consecutive session on Monday, while the Dow Jones hit a record high for the first time since July.
Over three-quarters of the S&P 500 companies that have reported results so far have beaten profit expectations, Refinitiv data showed.
Further easing concerns of a slowdown in the domestic economy, data on Tuesday showed reading on the ISM services index improved to 54.7 in October from 52.6 in September, above expectations of 53.4, according to economists polled by Reuters.
At 11:28 a.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 29.98 points, or 0.11per cent, at 27,492.09, the S&P 500 was down 2.89 points, or 0.09per cent, at 3,075.38 and the Nasdaq Composite was up 4.58 points, or 0.05per cent, at 8,437.78.
Four of the 11 major S&P 500 sectors were lower, with real estate leading the declines. The energy sector climbed 0.66per cent, as oil prices rose.
A 2per cent rise in Boeing Co's shares kept the blue-chip Dow Jones index in positive territory after Chairman Dave Calhoun said the company's board believed Chief Executive Officer Dennis Muilenburg "has done everything right" following two fatal crashes involving its 737 MAX jet.
Adobe Inc rose 3.3per cent as the Photoshop software maker raised its fourth-quarter digital media annualized recurring revenue target, supporting the Nasdaq.
Uber Technologies Inc fell 7.6per cent after the ride-hailing service posted a bigger third-quarter loss.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 1.06-to-1 ratio on the NYSE. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 1.20-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq.
The S&P index recorded 57 new 52-week highs and no new lows, while the Nasdaq recorded 134 new highs and 27 new lows.
(Reporting by Arjun Panchadar and Shreyashi Sanyal in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Sriraj Kalluvila)
