
# Holly Willoughby makes surprise appearance in Jennifer Aniston's new show

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:48:18+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/holly-willoughby-makes-surprise-appearance-20810896)

Holly Willoughby was left squealing with joy after she discovered that she has a cameo role in Jennifer Aniston's new TV show.
The TV presenter, 38, appears in the background of Apple TV+'s The Morning Show, which is based on an American news show similar to ITV's This Morning.
Alongside Dr Chris Steele, Holly pops up during a scene involving Jennifer's character, news anchor Alex Levy, arguing with producers.
Holly introduced a clip of the moment on This Morning today, saying: "Shall we have a look at it? Let's look at us!"
After watching it, she said: "There you go, blink and you miss it!"
Viewers of The Morning Show had been quick to tweet about Holly's brief appearance in the show.
One tweeted: "Just spotted @hollywills and @Schofe on @thismorning in the background of Episode 3 of @AppleTV ’s #TheMorningShow​... they clearly know where the best one in the world is!"
"Loved seeing @hollywills & @Schofe on @TheMorningShow," another posted, alongside a laughing emoji.
A third said: "Is that @DrChrisSteele & the @thismorning set on the screen in the background of new The Morning Show?!"
Jennifer and her co-star Reese Witherspoon were on This Morning today promoting their similarly named show, speaking to Alison Hammond.
Alison, who knows a lot about daytime TV, gave the Hollywood actresses some pointers and asked whether they had done any research into her role.
Jennifer said: "You especially. This is how good I am. You didn’t notice the following I did of you. That's how much of a shadow I am."
The actresses then watched some classic This Morning clips and had to decide whether they were fake or not, which led to Jen swearing.
They refused to believe that This Morning would air a knife thrower's assistant being hit in the head during a stunt.
