
# Arsenal's Stance On Mourinho Revealed?

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/arsenal-s-stance-on-jose-mourinho-revealed/666524)

With Portuguese tactician Jose Mourinho believed to be interested in taking over at Arsenal, a football expert has now claimed to have an idea as to how the Gunners might feel about the manager.

        
          Mourinho Waiting On Man Utd's EPL Rivals?
        
      
With many believing that Unai Emery's job at the London club is unstable, former Manchester United boss Mourinho is reportedly open to replacing the Spaniard, who has come in for a lot of criticism in recent weeks.
French football expert Julien Laurens, however, thinks that Arsenal might not want Mourinho as much as he might want them.

        
          Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
"At the moment, Emery is safe and well safe as well," he said, according to the Daily Express.
"There's not even a question about 'who could come next now because he's going to be sacked soon?'.
"And I don't think Mourinho, if he wants to apply for the job and the job becomes available then so be it, but I don't think that for people at the top of the club, on the board, the Kroenke family and Raul Sanllehi and people like that, would really have someone like Mourinho with that kind of profile in their mind to take over Emery when that will happen."

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
Mourinho, 56, has also been linked with Tottenham Hotspur and Real Madrid in recent months.
