
# Emery Responds To Rumours Mourinho Could Replace Him

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:59:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/unai-emery-responds-to-rumours-jose-mourinho-could-replace-him/666969)

Arsenal boss Unai Emery has responded to rumours controversial manager Jose Mourinho could take his job at the north London club.

        
          Read: 9 Stars Who Were Stripped Of The Captain's Armband
        
      
Emery was speaking to the press following his side's 1-1 UEFA Europa League draw with Vitoria Guimaraes when he gave a defiant four-word answer to speculation of Mourinho's impending arrival at the Emirates.
"I am the coach," Emery said, as reported by the Daily Mail.
The Spaniard also shared his disappointment at Arsenal's failure to claim all three points against their Portuguese opponents, but maintained his side's ambition to remain competitive in the tournament.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
"In this competition, our objective is to be first in the group," the former Paris Saint-Germain boss added.  
"We are going to play the next two matches to make sure we're in that position. Now we're going to prepare for a new competition.
"We worked, we played, fighting against a team with strong organisation. When we did the most difficult, score one goal, they drew at the end.
"It's a little disappointing for that result. We're first in the group, we want to make sure of that position in the next matches."

        
          Read: Arsenal Announce New Captain After X-Rated Xhaka Rant
        
      
Emery joined Arsenal from PSG at the beginning of last season, and has won 43 of his 75 matches in charge of the Gunners.
