
# Nike+ Apple Watch Series 4 $100 off, Logitech Gold Box at Amazon from $12, more

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:00:36+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/04/nike-apple-watch-deal/)

Nike+ Apple Watch Series 4 takes $100 off at Macy’s, Amazon’s Logitech Gold Box starts at $12, and you can score a 9.7-inch iPad with cellular for $235. Hit the jump for all that and more in the latest 9to5Toys Lunch Break.
Macy’s is taking $100 off various Apple Watch Series 4 models, including Nike+, with deals from $299. Today’s deal is double the discount you’ll find at other retailers. It’s also right in line with our previous mentions. We’ve rarely seen Nike+ Series 4 models on sale in 2019, so be sure to jump on this deal today. We’re expecting these offers to sell out quickly. Apple Watch Series 4 delivers a larger watch face than its predecessors and a water-resistant casing to 164-feet. The OLED display is bright and colorful, and you can count on the usual suite of notifications from your iPhone. Check out the entire sale right here.
Be sure to swing by our roundup of the best Series 4 Apple Watch bands for various styles from $5. This is a great way to skip the pricier first-party options from Apple and leverage your savings from today even further.
Today’s Amazon Gold Box includes a number of notable deals on Logitech accessories for your Mac or PC. Deals can be had under $12 with our top pick being the MX Master Wireless Mouse at $47, which is down from the usual $60 price tag. You can find all of our top picks right here.
Today only, Woot offers Apple’s refurbished 5th generation 9.7-inch iPad Wi-Fi + Cellular 32GB in unlocked condition for $235. As a comparison, this model originally sold for $459. We’ve previously mentioned it in refurbished condition for around $300. Apple’s 5th generation iPad offers a 9.7-inch Retina display, A9 chip, 32GB worth of internal storage, and an 8MP camera with support for 1080p video recording. Today’s deal is perfect for kids or grandparents that don’t need the latest tech. Includes a 90-day warranty.
Satechi’s Amazon storefront is discounting several accessories today, including its USB-C to 3.5mm Headphone Adapter for $20. As a comparison, it typically sells for $25. Today’s deal is a new Amazon all-time low. With various devices, including iPhones and iPads, now lacking headphone ports, this is a sleek way to maintain USB-C connectivity while adding a 3.5mm jack to the mix. It features the usual sleek Satechi design with a Space Gray casing to match your device. The added USB-C port allows you to charge PD-capable devices at up to 89W. Rated 3.8/5 stars. Shop the rest of today’s Satechi deals right here.
Amazon currently offers the Sennheiser PXC 550 Wireless Adaptive Noise Cancelling Headphones for $184. Normally selling for $230, today’s offer is good for a 20% discount, beats the previous price cut by $15, and is a new all-time low. Featuring the company’s NoiseGard Hybrid adaptive noise cancelling, Sennheiser’s PXC 550 headphones automatically adjust the level of sound-blocking based on how loud your surrounding environment is. As far as other notable inclusions, you’ll find up to 30-hours of playback on a single charge, NFC pairing, smart audio pause, a lightweight design, and more.
Get 15% off OWC USB-C Travel Dock and 10% off the 10-Port USB-C Dock w/ code 9TO5DOCK.
The OWC USB-C Travel Dock is a 5 port travel dock with up to 60W of power pass through capability and small enough to fit in your pocket. It includes 2 x USB 3.1 Gen 1 ports, a USB-C port with power pasthrough, an SD card reader, and HMDI 2.0 port with support for 4K displays. The OWC 10-port USB-C Dock includes five USB 3.1 Gen 1 ports (including a USB Type-C) and can charge laptops with up to 60W of power. Also included is Ultra-High-Speed Gigabit Ethernet, a front facing SD card reader, Mini DisplayPort interface, combo audio in/out port, and an included Mini DisplayPort to HDMI 4K adapter. Both come in four color options– silver, space gray, gold and rose gold– to match your MacBook.

        
          Subscribe to the 9to5Toys YouTube Channel for all of the latest videos, reviews, and more!
        
      

        Nixplay Smart Photo Frame Review: Elegant and easy-to-use [Video]
      

        Street Fighter II RepliCade review: An incredibly-detailed mini arcade [Video]
      
