
# Former Rangers and Aberdeen star David Robertson says his Indian club is set for Bollywood treatment

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/entertainment/tv-radio/former-rangers-aberdeen-star-david-20799734)

Football manager David Robertson has revealed filmmakers want to give his miracle Indian club the Bollywood treatment.
BBC Scotland’s hit documentary about David’s team Real Kashmir is in line for a prestigious Bafta Scotland award tonight.
And the former Rangers and Aberdeen defender has revealed he has met producers about turning their journey to India’s top league into a drama.
Kashmir’s first professional club was only formed three years ago.
Robertson’s achievement is even more remarkable considering they are based in Kashmir’s largest city Srinagar – one of the most militarised places in the world.
The show and producer Greg Clark are up for two awards at the glittering ceremony in Glasgow tonight: in the Single Documentary and Director – Factual categories.
 
Robertson, 51, who will swap his tracksuit for a tuxedo to attend the event, said: “The Bollywood company met us earlier this year in Mumbai.
“They’ve been in talks and have already been around the club a lot.
“They’ve obviously watched Greg’s programme and wanted to give it the Bollywood treatment.
“It will be either a film or a Netflix-style series. I’m not sure who will be playing me, though.”
Robertson used the f-word 92 times in the acclaimed documentary, which was made in the war-torn outpost.
Meanwhile, Clark – who has already started filming a follow-up documentary on Robertson’s job – said he’s been stunned by the response to the programme.
He said: “I’ve really been overwhelmed by how much coverage it got and the positive reaction to it.”
