
# 'Messi & Ronaldo Are Monsters'

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/lionel-messi-cristiano-ronaldo-are-monsters/666677)

Liverpool superstar Sadio Mane is among the best players in the world at the moment, but has played down talk of being on the same level as "monsters" Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo, whom he is up against for the 2019 Ballon d'Or.

        
          9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The Senegalese winger was sublime for the Reds last season, but has seemingly taken his game to new heights in the 2019/20 campaign so far.
Mane's brilliance over the past year as earned him a place among the nominees for the Ballon d'Or, which he will challenge teammates Mohamed Salah and Virgil van Dijk for, as well as the two five-time winners.
Asked if he sees himself on a similar level to the FC Barcelona and Juventus forwards, the Senegal superstar insisted he is still working hard to match up to them.
"These players are monsters," he said, according to the Daily Star.
"I think that I am still far away from them.
"As I have said, I am going to do everything I can to come a little closer to them."

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
Mane also admitted that winning the prestigious individual prize is something he has always dreamed of.
"Honestly, as I've said, it has always been a childhood dream of mine," he added. 
"The fact that I am listed as one of the nominees is due to the fruits of the work that I've been putting in for a long time.
"This is more of a dream than an obsession, I am at the service of the collective first and foremost.
"And if I am able to distinguish myself amongst this collective then, of course, the Ballon d'Or has always been my dream. And when a dream comes true, it is always exceptional.
"All of the Senegalese people, my friends, my family, would be so happy, I would be so happy."

        
          Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
Mane has played 15 matches for Liverpool so far this season, scoring 10 goals and assisting a further five strikes.
