
# Man stabbed to death in fight over Popeyes chicken sandwich, police say

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:21:15+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2019/nov/05/man-stabbed-popeyes-chicken-sandwich-maryland)


        Two men were waiting in line outside Maryland restaurant when one of the men accused the other of cutting in front of him in a line
      
A man fatally stabbed another customer outside a Maryland Popeyes restaurant in a fight over the chain’s recently re-released chicken sandwich, police say.
The two men were waiting in line at an Oxon Hill Popeyes on Monday night when one of the men accused the other of cutting in front of him in a line specifically for ordering chicken sandwiches, Prince George’s county police spokeswoman Jennifer Donelan told news outlets.
The fight then spilled outside where one of the men stabbed the other, according to police.
The 28-year-old victim was from the Washington area, police said. He was taken to a hospital, where he died less than an hour later.
Police were still looking for the suspect and have called on him to surrender, Donelan added. The victim and the suspect’s identities were not immediately released.
Popeyes resumed selling its chicken sandwich on Sunday, having first released it on 12 August. The chain credited popular demand to its supply selling out by the end of that month. The sandwich has been credited with causing long lines and hours-long waits across the county.
