
# McIver: 'My mind has not changed' on support for the Green Line project

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:22:52+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/mciver-my-mind-has-not-changed-on-support-for-the-green-line-project)

Last spring, Albertans gave our government a historic mandate to stop mortgaging our future with debt that was on track to hit over $100 billion. We waste $5 million every day simply to pay the interest on this debt. That’s enough to buy 30 ambulances every day or a new school every week.
Budget 2019 is the first step to fixing our finances and stopping the reckless dive into debt.
It is not easy, and it means focusing on fiscal responsibility. But fiscally prudent decisions are necessary and long overdue.
One of these decisions was to temporarily defer payments for Calgary’s Green Line LRT project.
It’s important to remember that to date, Calgary city council has not even agreed to a finalized route proposal — despite this project dating back at least 20 years. It is not as though the government of Alberta cutting a cheque for the full amount today would result in construction tomorrow. Far from it, given how debate in council has unfolded.
Money will be disbursed more slowly at the start, and speed up as the project develops. We still remain committed to funding the Green Line. That has not changed. We will fund the original $1.53 billion over nine years, as was always the case. We are simply deferring some funds to the back half of those nine years.
The budget’s legislation, publicly available on the government of Alberta’s website, specifically states: the government “commits to providing $1,530,000,000 to the City of Calgary … for the purposes of the construction of light rail transit projects.”
That language is specific and clear.
We have a lengthy track record of supporting the LRT. Premier Kenney was the federal minister who announced Canada’s funding for the Calgary Green Line in 2015. The UCP platform in the 2019 provincial election explicitly clarified that a UCP government will “maintain key infrastructure commitments … such as LRT extensions in Calgary and Edmonton.”
I have supported the LRT extension in Calgary since the first time I ran for Calgary city council in 1998. My constituents in Calgary-Hays expect me to deliver the LRT and I intend to get it done. My mind has not changed.
Budget 2019 enables our government to both fully fund our share of the LRT expansion, and balance the budget within four years.
Additionally, to ensure these projects move ahead on time, we will work with Calgary to access federal funding sooner. My officials have already met with Calgary to plan a path forward for the Green Line.
There has been some criticism of the fact that Budget 2019 added a termination clause for the LRT agreement, so I’d like to directly respond.
Termination clauses are standard for government contracts.
In fact, the government of Canada’s agreement with the province for federal funding, including the Calgary Green Line, contains a clause that would allow Canada to terminate its funding for the project. This agreement is available on Infrastructure Canada’s website.
Budget 2019 proposes a similar clause to the LRT agreement with Calgary to ensure consistency between the provincial and federal agreements.
The NDP Opposition claims that our government is secretly planning to cancel this project altogether. This is completely false. My colleague, Minister Travis Toews, summed up the NDP’s actions appropriately: it is the Opposition’s job to oppose the actions of the government, but “they should do so on principle rather than through efforts to mislead Albertans.”
Our track record is clear and our priorities have not changed. Budget 2019 is a balanced plan that keeps our focus on jobs and the economy, while getting our finances back in order.
We remain committed to funding Calgary’s LRT extension, and will work with the city to ensure these projects move forward.

        Ric McIver is Alberta’s transportation minister.
      
