
# Ayushmann Khurrana shares a gratitude post; captions, thank you universe for channelising all the positive energies towards me

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:01:26+00:00**

Author: **ANI**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/ayushmann-khurrana-shares-a-gratitude-post-captions-thank-you-universe-for-channelising-all-the-positive-energies-towards-me/articleshow/71930819.cms)

Ayushmann Khurrana is all set for the release of his upcoming film 'Bala'. The actor is leaving no stones unturned to promote his film on various platforms. And he recently visited Varanasi as a part of promotions.
The actor performed the Ganga Aarti, a dream which he has been harbouring since his college days. Pictures and videos of him are all over the internet.
And now, the actor shared a gratitude post on his Instagram where he revealed that he always finds himself at the places of strong energies just before the release of his movies. The caption read, "I find myself at the places of strong energies just before the release of my films. I don’t even plan this. Before the release of AndhaDhun and Badhaai Ho i was in Vaishnodevi. During Dreamgirl i was at lalbaugh. And now just before #Bala i am at the ghats of banaras. Thank you universe for channelising all the positive energies towards me. #Gratitude
Check out the post here:
Feeling blessed, the 'Article 15' star said, "It was a surreal moment for me to do my first Ganga Aarti at Varanasi. I had always wanted to experience this moment and had thought about it since college. I'm delighted that every single thing worked out for me to perform the Ganga Aarti. I won't ever forget this. It was an extremely peaceful, magical and soulful feeling for me."
Meanwhile, the film helmed by Amar Kaushik stars Yami Gautam and Bhumi Pednekar as the leading ladies. The film will hit the theatres on November 08.
