
# Apply Nix-Shell environment in Visual Studio Code

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:22:28+00:00**

Author: **RV170**

Original: [Habr](https://habr.com/en/post/474916/)

A lot of developers faced a problem with packages hell on their workstation. After a couple of months with experiments, including different languages and toolchains, I installed Elixir, Haskell-stack, Node.js/NVM, and other various stuff. Most exciting things happen when you need different versions of the same package for different projects. Humanity already invented a different solution for creating an isolated environment and switch them when needed. We are using NVM to manage Node.js versions, Python Virtual Env for selecting Python stuff versions or Docker for creating OS inside an OS. But none of the solutions satisfy all my requirements for the isolated development environment.
It was a cold autumn evening. I was sitting in my kitchen room and thought about perfect isolation for project workspace with their dependencies. Actually, I didn’t, but the paragraph should have an introduction.After that, I wrote following criteria for my perfect isolation tool:
I remember that once I read about the declarative package manager that can produce an isolated environment and manage all system dependencies and Haskell project dependencies as well.Five minutes googling, 30 minutes reading, and 1-hour trying let me find out that the current tool is all I need. All I need is love. But stop, it’s another song. All I need is Nix.Let’s compare the requirements I wrote above from actual Nix features.
It was a long time ago. When the autumn evening was cold, I told you, do you remember? But today is a completely different evening. It’s warm autumn and all of my problems disappeared.
The extension helps you integrate VS Code and Nix-shell together.I’m too lazy to write this chapter from scratch, so the text bellow is copy/paste from official README.md from my extension.
To run your Haskell application, you have to install the GHC compiler. To avoid global GHC installation and be able to use different compiler versions in your host lets do this by using nix virtual environment.Example of GHC compiler inside the NIX store (shell.nix):
Now let’s try to open our project in Visual Studio Code.
You can see, IDE can’t find a compiler. Let’s turn on shell.nix env.
Bingo! Everything is fine now.
I hope the article brought you some new ideas about how to make your life easier and manage your project without chaos in your file system.The benefits of this approach are:

        Nothing is perfect in our world:
      
