
# Samsung Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First Deals

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/03/samsung-black-friday-2019-here-are-the-first-deals-galaxy-s10-note10-galaxy-watch-samsung-tv-sales/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.Samsung Black Friday sales are some of the best holiday season deals around. Now with major sales already live from Walmart, from Best Buy, from Amazon and with Apple deals flooding in, Samsung offers are fighting back. Here are the hottest early Black Friday deals you can buy on Galaxy S10 and Note 10 Smartphones, Galaxy tablets, Galaxy smartwatches and 4K UHD TVs right now. 

        Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Samsung Black Friday Galaxy Smartphone Deals
      

        Samsung Black Friday Galaxy Tablet Deals
      

        Samsung Black Friday Laptop Deals
      

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Samsung Black Friday Galaxy Watch Deals
      

        Samsung Black Friday TV Deals
      

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
 While eyes will turn to the Galaxy S10 and Note 10 deals, beware that discounts with be circa $300 (and $400 from Costco) on Black Friday - though expect stock levels at those prices to be extremely limited. Instead, what catches my eye are the superb TV deals available right now which are likely to match anything you will find on Black Friday itself. Only Samsung.com’s typically late entry into Black Friday should give you pause for thought here because it is famed for late and great bargains. 
For my dedicated store-by-store, Black Friday live deals guides you can check out available Amazon deals here, available Best Buy deals here, available Walmart deals here and available Apple deals here. While Black Friday 2019 shipping policies can be found for Amazon (here), Best Buy (here), Target (here) and Walmart (here).
___
Follow Gordon on Twitter and Facebook 

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
