
# AP Sportlight

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Compiled by PAUL MONTELLA**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/ap-sportlight/)

Nov. 5
1927 - Walter Hagen beats Joe Turnesa 1-up to capture the PGA Championship for the fourth consecutive year and fifth overall.
1955 - Montreal’s Jean Beliveau scores the second fastest hat trick in NHL history in a 4-2 win over Boston. Beliveau, who scores all four Canadien goals, gets three in 44 seconds against Bruins goaltender Terry Sawchuk on the same power play. At that time a penalized player served the entire term of his infraction. The league changes the rule the next season. Bert Olmstead assists on all three of Beliveau’s goals.
1966 - Virgil Carter of BYU passes for 513 yards and rushes for 86 to set an NCAA record for total yards with 599 in a 53-33 victory over Texas Western.
1977 - BYU sophomore Marc Wilson sets an NCAA record with 571 passing yards in a 38-8 rout of Utah.
1978 - Oakland coach John Madden becomes the 13th coach to win 100 games in the NFL when the Raiders beat the Kansas City Chiefs 20-10.
1988 - Alysheba becomes the richest racehorse when he beats Seeking the Gold by a half-length in the $3 million Breeders’ Cup Classic at Churchill Downs. Alysheba wins first-place money of $1.35 million, giving him a career bankroll of more than $6.67 million to push past John Henry, who retired with more than $6.59 million.
1994 - George Foreman regains part of the heavyweight title he lost to Muhammad Ali in 1974, stopping Michael Moorer with a two-punch combination at 2:03 of the 10th round. Foreman, 45, captures the IBF and WBA championships to become the oldest champion in any weight class.
1997 - The Milwaukee Brewers are the first major league baseball team to switch leagues this century, moving from the AL to the NL.
1999 - Carolina’s Ron Francis becomes the sixth NHL player to reach 1,500 career points when he assists on Sami Kapanen’s first-period goal for the Hurricanes in 3-2 loss at Detroit.
2000 - Elvis Grbac completes 39 of 53 passes for a 504 yards and three touchdowns in Kansas City’s 49-31 loss to Oakland.
2010 - Mexico beats the U.S. in one of the biggest upsets in the history of women’s soccer. The Mexicans, on goals by Maribel Dominguez and Veronica Perez, win 2-1 and qualify for the 2011 World Cup.
2011 - Drosselmeyer, a 14-1 shot, roars down the middle of the track and catches Game On Dude in the closing strides to win the $5 million Breeders’ Cup Classic.
2016 - Arrogate catches 4-5 favorite California Chrome in the final 100 yards to win the $6 million Breeders’ Cup Classic.
2017 - New Orleans beats Tampa Bay 30-10 to improve to 6-2 with its sixth straight victory. The Saints are the third team since the NFL-AFL merger in 1970 to win their next six games after an 0-2 start. The other teams - the 1993 Dallas Cowboys and 2007 New York Giants - won the Super Bowl in those seasons.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
