
# An Interview With Livicated Farm’s Owner And Cultivator, Jeremiah Woodard

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Warren Bobrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/warrenbobrow/2019/11/06/interview-with-jeremiah-woodard-ownercultivator-livicated-farm/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

I love the cannabis grown by Livicated Farm. The unique strains ease my glaucoma pressure on my eyes and the terroir speaks clearly of outdoor grown cannabis from the northern part of California. I’m pleased by their terpenes and the deep experience of enjoying some of the best cannabis in the world. Thank you for inhaling deeply on our behalf. Warren Bobrow=WB: Please tell me about your company? Who is your inspiration? Do you have a mentor(s)? Who are they?
Jeremiah Woodard= JW: Livicated is a licensed cannabis farm located in Mendocino County, which is part of the legendary Emerald Triangle. Livicated is the observance or dedication to ‘livity’ (the understanding that an energy or life force exists within all people and all living things, we are all connected.)
We cultivate craft cannabis under full sun on a 2,500 sqft parcel of our land, and nurture what nature has provided for us. My flower can be found in dispensaries throughout California and is distributed by Flow Kana. With our location in Redwood Valley, we have found certain varietals that thrive in our particular microclimate — very high temperatures during the day and low dips in the evening.
With each season we try to have a diverse balance of presenting cannabinoids (including high CBD), and terpene-rich flowers that will deliver different effects. Each season brings new experience, and cultivar selection is a constant focus. In addition to cannabis, we cultivate a variety of medicinal herbs for tinctures and topicals.
I am inspired by the healers of the world. The herbalists, the spiritual leaders, and the teachers that dedicate their lives to bettering ours. My closest mentors are those around me on the day-to-day — I believe we learn and grow through our experiences.

        
          WB: Why cannabis? Indoor or outdoor grown? By whom? When did you discover the plant?
        
      
JW: Cannabis is the healing of the nation. The most powerful and resourceful herb known to man, reaching its highest potential under full sun. Full sun flower has a more diverse cannabinoid and terpene profiles compared to indoor-grown flower.
My experience with cannabis as an early teen was not that of medicine grown with love — it was more a product of greed, supply, and demand which ultimately motivated me to find a better route — grow my own. In my humble opinion, the best medicine is grown with the best intentions: in July of this year, Livicated’s Long Valley Legend won 1st place (CBD pre-roll) at WeedCon in Los Angeles.

        
          WB: What is your six month and twelve month plans for your company?
        
      
JW: Over the next six months, the intention is to reach the market with a deeper sense of meaning, creating a sense of support through medicine. Livicated flower is my gift to the world and I believe that love is communicated through every jar. With the ground work being laid today, in the next year I envision Livicated as an established brand ready for the possibility of expansion in the craft cannabis community. As we evolve as an industry, I feel it is important to evolve as a brand. We must maintain our footing and always be a positive influence in our community.

        
          WB: Do you cook? What is your favorite thing to prepare? Do you have a favorite restaurant? Style?
        
      
JW: I do not consider myself to be a chef, however I do appreciate a good curry! Living in the hills of Mendocino, there isn’t an abundance of restaurants. We support each other with the fruits of the land. When we do make it to town, Tastebuds (an organic vegetarian/vegan cafe in Ukiah) has become a sanctuary for healthy eats in our small community. Food is our first defense against against sickness and disease, I take what I put into my body very seriously.

         
        
          WB: What is your passion?
        
      
JW: Cannabis is my work, my passion, and my offering to the world. I cultivate love for the people. I love to bring the message of healing to all. Whether sceptic or supporter, I see the value in teaching others the possibilities of plant medicine. We are all students, we are all teachers. I invite you to see pictures of Livicated throughout the seasons here.
