
# Massimiliano Allegri is best choice and ready for Man Utd, says Marcello Lippi

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:42:27+00:00**

Author: **Darren Wells, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-wells/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/massimiliano-allegri-best-choice-ready-20818771)

Marcello Lippi has tipped Massimiliano Allegri to be Man Utd manager and claims he would be the "best choice".
Former Juventus boss Allegri is out of work at present, though has been linked with the current vacancy at Bayern Munich.
United have struggled so far this season under the stewardship of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, although there are no signs to suggest the club are preparing to part with the Norwegian.
But Lippi feels Allegri is "ready" to end the "dark years" at Old Trafford should he be given the opportunity in the hotseat.
Lippi told the Mail : "Allegri would be good everywhere and as a great admirer of the English club I would be happy to see him take over.
“My deep friendship with [Sir Alex] Ferguson allows me to say that he would be the best choice for United.
“Allegri studies English and is perfect for the British style. He is prepared and shrewd. He reads the game with great ease.
“He loves challenges and I respect him a lot, I think he is serious and prepared, I think he is a humble person. A great Italian who would do very well in England.
“I can tell you that he is ready for United.”
Allegri boasts an impressive CV, having led Juventus to back-to-back titles in all five of his seasons at the helm.
His team also doubled up in four of those seasons, winning the Coppa Italia in every year of his reign except the last.
Juve also reached two Champions League finals in just three years, but came runners-up on both occasions.
The 52-year-old has emerged as a contender for the Bayern post after the club parted ways with Niko Kovac.
But former England boss Fabio Capello believes he should turn down any approach, and wait for contact from the Red Devils.
“He’d be a good fit at Bayern Munich, although I don’t know how welcome Italians are in Germany after Ancelotti," Capello told Radio Anch’io Sport .
“England’s exciting, there’s the possibility of working well and the Premier League is a championship that enriches you. If I was Allegri, I’d go to Manchester.”
