
# China's Richest 2019: Bosideng Surges Amid Increased Consumer Spending

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Russell Flannery**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/russellflannery/2019/11/06/chinas-richest-2019-bosideng-surges-amid-increased-consumer-spending?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2804473791&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesAsia)


        
          This story is part of Forbes' coverage of China’s Richest 2019. See the full list here
          .
        
      
Bosideng, one of the world’s biggest makers of down jackets, was struggling in the first half of 2017. Sales and profits were slumping, inventories piling up and its Hong Kong-listed shares trading at eight-year lows. “I knew there was a problem, but I didn’t know what the problem was,” says founder and chairman Gao Dekang.
Fast forward to mid-October: Bosideng’s Hong Kong-listed shares have tripled from a year earlier. In October supermodel Kendall Jenner walked the runway at Milan Fashion Week sporting a Bosideng down jacket that has put Bosideng on the same level as international brands Canada Goose and Moncler.
Last year, shoppers lined up in front of Bosideng’s flagship store along Shanghai’s posh Nanjing Road in hopes of buying limited edition jackets designed by Tim Coppens, Antonin Tron and Ennio Capasa that debuted at New York Fashion Week. That international splash helped boost revenue in the year ending March 31 by 17% to roughly 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion), with net profit rising 59% to 981 million yuan.
Bosideng’s performance has turned Gao, 67, into one of the biggest gainers on this year’s list with an estimated net worth of $4.35 billion compared with $1.4 billion a year ago. Bosideng’s share price—and Gao’s fortune—has even withstood an attack in June by short seller Bonitas Research, citing “fabricated profits.” Bosideng denied Bonitas’ claim, and the market made its judgment: shares have doubled since.
It’s been a long road: Gao first appeared on the list in 2005 with a fortune (in today’s dollars) of $100 million. Gao’s ups and downs have tracked the vicissitudes of China’s increasingly affluent consumers. After learning from his father how to sew, Gao set up his first apparel business with a team of 11 villagers in 1975, when Chairman Mao was still alive.
In 1991, the group’s factory was formally established. In 1994, he restructured the business, naming it “Bosideng” because it sounded like Boston, a U.S. city of knowledge. “People heard the name of the brand, and thought it was foreign,” he says.
One of his earliest hurdles was convincing state-owned department stores to sell his jackets. “At the start of China’s reforms, no one had experience, and you had to figure out how to do the business,” Gao says. “To survive, you had to create the product and create a brand.”
“I had the courage to gamble,” he says. Bosideng’s sales rose with increased consumer spending, and Gao took Bosideng public on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2007. By 2010, Bosideng was in as many as 10,000 stores. By 2016, sales declined to 5.7 billion yuan from 9.3 billion yuan in 2013, and net income dropped by 74% to only 281 million yuan.
Gao responded by reinventing Bosideng, overhauling everything from supply chains to sales channels. “This was the second time I had to start again in business,” he recalls. The key was to rejuvenate the brand, he says. “We used to sell to older people but now we sell to younger people,” says Gao.
Gao hired international designers to improve styling to better compete with popular imported brands. He had French designer Thomas Clement design Bosideng’s new flagship store in Shanghai. To improve sales, Gao shifted focus from department stores to upscale shopping malls, cutting Bosideng’s store presence in half and closing its struggling menswear line, Bosideng MAN.
Bosideng also turned increasingly to e-commerce. The company in 2018 formed a partnership with Alibaba. It also worked with New York Fashion Week. Like its accomplishments in Milan this year, Bosideng last year attracted an audience in New York that included actress Anne Hathaway, actor Jeremy Renner and entrepreneur Wendi Deng Murdoch. Celebrity model Alessandra Ambrosio walked the runway in a Bosideng coat, a debut streamed live in China, where consumers on Alibaba’s Taobao snapped up the latest in Bosideng’s collection. Bosideng used the same strategy this year in Milan with Jenner on the runway in front of an audience that included actress Nicole Kidman, fashion blogger Chiara Ferragni and Vogue Italia editor-in-chief Emanuele Farneti.
Bosideng’s latest designs don’t come cheap. “In the past we didn’t know that we could sell down fashion for 10,000 to 20,000 yuan,” Gao says. Bosideng’s products are also gaining appeal abroad. “Our products have their own special characteristics, Chinese style and Chinese genes,” he says.
Bosideng has not neglected licensed products. In 2016, it launched a series of Disney products and also manufactures down products under contract for brands such as Adidas, Columbia, North Face and Tommy Hilfiger. Despite Bosideng’s flashy new identity, Gao says he feels the same rush of success he remembers from earlier in his career. “This is where hot products come from,” he says.
