
# Kim Kardashian 'cried so hard' after renting childhood home for Kris Jenner party

Published at: **2019-11-06T02:08:05+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kim-kardashian-cried-hard-after-20821272)

Kim Kardashian ensured that emotions were running high on Kris Jenner's 64th birthday with the ultimate nostalgic gift.
Kris manages all six of her children, which gives her at least 10 per cent of their income, as well as being a producer of their reality show, Keeping Up With The Kardashians.
Kim had the ultimate, money can't buy gift (though it obviously did) which left Kris tearful and 39-year-old Kim admitting that she ended the day 'crying so hard'.
In a series of tweets on Tuesday, the reality star revealed the lengths she had gone to surprise her momager, as well as her sisters, who were also unaware of the surprise Kim had up her sleeves.
Kim started by saying on Twitter : "Today we celebrate my mom. Anyone that knows her, knows how sentimental she is."
She went on to share what she did in a number of tweets, that also touched on the emotions that the day generated.
Kim continued: "For her birthday I planned a small lunch, with just her kids and her closest friends of 40 + years.
"I sent out invites with a location where we all met. When everyone arrived, I told them I had a surprise and this wasn’t where we would be eating."
In a video that Kim shared on social media, Kris and her friends are told that the hotel they are in is just a decoy for the real venue for the party.
Kim revealed on Twitter: "Then gave everyone the REAL invitation and once everyone saw the address for where we would be going tears filled the room. I rented our childhood home."
That wasn't all, as Kim made sure there were some sensational sentimental touches inside the house.
She continued: "All of our memories live here especially with our dad. It’s where each Kardashian child was born & made us who we are.
"Growing up, the home had the most ridiculous wallpaper & kitchen set! I remade all of our table settings out of the same fabric & print as the wallpaper."
As if the home wasn't an emotional enough gift, Kim also had hunted down all the cars they had owned to make the trip to the house.
Kim tweeted: "We had lunch at the home as if it hadn’t changed and we cried the entire time. When we walked out to get our cars to drive there, I had another surprise! I had rented every car my parents ever owned.
"I had some waiting outside so we could drive them to the house and the rest were lined up in the driveway of the house exactly how my parents used to have them parked."
No detail was left unnoticed as Kim continued: "I even remade the exact license plates. (Yes my mom had a 2 DIE 4 license plate!) We drove to the home in these cars and relived our childhood!
"This was the best day ever. I am so proud I was able to keep such a meaningful surprise a secret from my mom and sisters for weeks!"
After the special day was coming to an end, Kim admitted that the emotions of the day finally got the better of her and she had a moment of reflection in the privacy of her childhood bathroom.
Kim finished by tweeting: "This was the most special, nostalgic day of my life and we felt my dad’s presence enjoying this day with us!
"I kept it together at lunch even though I cried during the planning process. But at the end I went into my old bathroom, closed the door & cried so hard."

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
