
# Frank Lampard outlines Chelsea transfer plans if FIFA ban is upheld

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:11:47+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/frank-lampard-outlines-chelsea-transfer-20810797)

Frank Lampard insists he will spend in January if Chelsea win their appeal against a FIFA transfer ban.
The Blues' appeal will be heard by Court of Arbitration for Sport on November 20, having already serving half of a two-window ban.
Lampard has enjoyed a fine start to life back at Stamford Bridge despite being unable to sign any new players, with a series of youngsters catching the eye.
But the Chelsea manager is ready to strengthen his squad, boasting a transfer kitty of around £150m.
"Chelsea will always look to improve in transfer windows if we can - and if the players we might look at are better or we feel are adding to the squad," Lampard said ahead of the Champions League clash with Ajax.
“I’m very interested in the appeal of course because it’s obviously going to affect potentially what we can do in January or not.
“It is a little bit down my list because the matter in hand is Ajax tonight. I’m not going too far ahead with what happens.
“Of course some players have come in and shown with their opportunities they’ve been given that they can do roles and play well. We are getting results at the moment.
“But at the minute I’m very happy with what I’ve got so I suppose that’s why the fans are as well.”
Chelsea have been linked with a host of players in recent weeks, including Wilfried Zaha, Timo Werner and Moussa Dembele.
Leicester and England left-back Ben Chilwell is also believed to be on their radar.
Mason Mount is one of the players to capitalise on the transfer ban but he insists he is ready to fight for his place, if new faces arrive.
"We’ve had to deal with that during our whole time at Chelsea," he said.
“You come into a team, there’s players from different countries and you’ve got to work and show how good you are."
