
# Man Utd weigh up £80m transfer swoop of Bayer Leverkusen star Kai Havertz

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-weigh-up-80m-20818878)

Manchester United are weighing up a sensational £80million move for Bayer Leverkusen forward Kai Havertz.
German midfielder Havertz is expected to be one of next summer's hottest transfer properties after admitting that he may be willing to depart the club for pastures new at the end of this season.
The 20-year-old has previously been linked with interest from Manchester United and Liverpool as well as Manchester City and Borussia Dortmund.
And under-pressure United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is seemingly desperate to pip his rivals to Havertz's signature, having identified a right-sided midfielder as his No.1 pritotity.
The Daily Star has reported that Solskjaer has made the talented forward his top target, though executive vice chairman Ed Woodward will wait until next summer to make his move.
The Old Trafford club are confident of landing the Germany international and will offer Leverkusen a deal that is too good to turn down.
In a bid to step up their pursuit, United have sent senior scouts to Germany to watch Havertz in action against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League on Wednesday night.
Leverkusen are believed to have slapped a massive £85 million valuation on Havertz – but that won't deter United as they build for the future.
And having kept their powder dry last summer in the search for the right midfielder United believe it's worth the investment to land playmaker Havertz who has a killer pass in his locker and an ability to dictate temo.
Havertz completely fits their identikit in age, talent, potential – and the X-factor ingredient are looking for from future signings.
Earlier this season, Havertz suggested this summer that this season could well be his last with Leverkusen.
He said: "I am happy to stay at Leverkusen for one more year. What happens next summer will be experienced in the future."
The midfielder scored 17 goals in the Bundesliga last season and has three to his name so far this campaign.
