
# Bring Me The Horizon on bold new track ‘Ludens’ – and why they may never make another album again

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:31:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/bring-me-the-horizon-ludens-timefall-soundtrack-oli-sykes-no-new-album-interview-2564959?utm_source=hootsuite&utm_medium=&utm_term=&utm_content=&utm_campaign=)


        "We invent, we create, and even though we do all of these awful things, we also do all of these incredible things."
      
Bring Me The Horizon have shared their brand new single ‘Ludens’, taken from the soundtrack Timefall for the new game Death Stranding. Check it out below along with our exclusive interview with frontman Oli Sykes.
Their first new material since the band’s acclaimed 2019 Number One album ‘amo‘, the track was written to accompany the new Hideo Kojima video game for the PS4. The soundtrack also features offerings from Major Lazer x Khalid,  Au/Ra x Alan Walker, The Neighbourhood, Flora Cash, MISSIO and The S.L.P., as well as Chvrches’ track ‘Death Stranding‘ which was shared last month.
A signpost for the future, ‘Ludens’ is yet another bold departure for Bring Me The Horizon.
“It doesn’t sound like anything off ‘amo’, but it doesn’t sound like anything off any of our records,” frontman Oli Sykes told NME. “It hits a different tone. We had to write it in five days. We’ve been talking about this with Sony and Kojima for quite a while. I was really excited because I loved Metal Gear Solid and Kojima is just my favourite developer, he’s a legend. All of the legal shit was going on to the point where we like, ‘This isn’t going to happen’.
“Then we got a call from the manager and he was like, ‘Yeah, it’s happening, but we need it within a week’. We were like, ‘We haven’t written anything yet! Can we have an extension or send them a demo as a placeholder’, and they were like, ‘If you don’t deliver the song on Saturday at 1pm then it won’t get used’.”
