
# Fighting the tragedy of the commons

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Professor Mireille Chidiac El Hajj**

Original: [An-Nahar](https://en.annahar.com/article/1061517-fighting-the-tragedy-of-the-commons)

Lebanon’s fragile economy is threatened, and it is a mistake to think that reforms and remedies can be applied soon amid prevailing corruption. So far, real damages had been caused to shared natural resources such as water, land and air. Pollution has increased while toxic trash is burned near urban developments given that a proper solid waste management plan has yet to be implemented. Even more so, forests were devastated by fires three weeks ago. The Lebanese economy suffers not only from the “Tragedy of the Commons” but also from an open capital account that gives the power to open common access.On September 29, French President Emmanuel Macron confirmed that his country is committed to implementing the decisions taken at the CEDRE conference and to mobilize $11billion to help the Lebanese economy. He nevertheless called on the government to tackle three essentials: Infrastructure, Electricity and Administrative Reforms. Thus, before he announced his resignation upon two weeks of anti-government protests, Lebanon’s PM Hariri proposed a package of reforms to ease the economic crisis including a plan to privatize its telecommunication and electricity sectors; admitting by this, the failure of the public administration. The Lebanese protestors disagreed for two valuable reasons: They don’t trust the government and they fear corruption! After a two-week closure and unprecedented protests, Lebanese banks opened to provide customers their salaries on November 1. Depositors rushed to banks to withdraw their savings or convert their deposits into foreign currencies or transfer them abroad. But no “real” panic was observed. With $38.5 billion foreign reserves at the end of September 2019; with an increase in deposit inflows due to the BDL financial engineering, and with no capital control and no haircut as suggested by the Goldman Sachs 2019 report, the Lebanese banking sector seems to be still immune to political and security threats. The success of the arrangements that were done by Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh came as a result of the monetary stability and the quality of banking business, based on three main factors: 1) The high returns to customers offered via the high-interest rates on Long-term Lebanese pounds currency as well as on the Dollar; 2) The separation of commercial banks from investment banks, to restrict speculation on securities; 3) Relying on the Diaspora to fill the deposits in the Lebanese Banks. These arrangements ensured confidence in the monetary stability for some time, but they didn’t come without a high price in a country where the banks buy government debt to finance the state's public debt, which swelled to around $86 billion or more than 150% of GDP, the third-highest in the world according to the IMF. In a country, where the business activities had fallen in all sectors, especially in construction and real-estate, which were once considered as the main pillars in the Lebanese economy. Since 1997, the Lebanese currency has been pegged to the dollar and remained fixed at 1,507.5 pounds. Now depositors fear a currency devaluation, as a parallel black market exchange devaluated the peg by around 26% as one dollar hit 1900 and even 1950 pounds on Friday November 2. According to analysts, the exchange rate fluctuation is mainly due to the huge trade imbalance and the number of imported goods such as oil, medication, wheat and flour. According to BlomInvest, the balance of payments recorded a $1380 million deficit in January 2019. After the unpronounced devaluation of the currency, the financial market seized functioning properly. This created a snowball that hit all other markets; as demand and supply are in a wait-and-see mode amid all the political and financial pressures. The crisis didn’t happen overnight, but incrementally. It was led by the invisible hand of the rampant corruption; the bureaucratic delays, the political interference, the customs evasion, the counterfeit goods, the bribes and the irregular payments applied to public utilities. And only “shock therapy” can solve it; and for a vision to be established, based on three different components: 1) the financial and economic situation; 2) the current state of the Diaspora; 3) the privatization type. It is well-known that in Lebanon, political, financial and economic tensions are always ahead of the formation of any new government. And there is no need to mention that investor confidence is lost behind inflation, poverty, inequality in the tax system and the large deficit and governmental debt. For some analysts, a small currency rate depreciation could have raised exports and solved the problem of the trade deficit somewhere else. But in Lebanon, this solution cannot be foreseen on the short term as the primary and the secondary sectors are not functioning. The banks had always lent the government rather than finance innovation and the private sector. It is time to work on the tertiary sector, on technology, on the entrepreneurship ecosystem and on innovation. They do exist but need to be boosted. In this respect, it is time to start exporting goods and services and stop exporting our educated youth. In fact, we do not know how many Lebanese have left and are leaving the country; but the size of the Diaspora is huge. It is estimated between four and five million people. They cannot be really counted as the actual holders of Lebanese nationality only make up a fraction of the descendants of the Lebanese migrants. According to the 2018 McKinsey report, the Diaspora suffers from a low engagement effort; unorganized labor force immigration; the absence of an advisory Board; the absence of planning to channel the Diaspora contribution towards productive areas while high shares of nonproductive inflows are observed as in consumption and real-estate. More should be done to those who contribute to high economic inflows and constitute a population equivalent to that of residents. We cannot always count on their generosity with nothing in return. Let us promote the national identity to strengthen the bond between Lebanon and its Diaspora, and formalize a lobbying power in the different cities, as explained in the McKinsey report. On the other side and to fight the tragedy of the Commons, we refer to Elinor Ostrom who suggested in her paper, Governing the Commons, to undertake one of two solutions: a centralized governmental regulation or privatization; which is the solution that was proposed by PM Hariri. However, when he didn’t specify the type of privatization, doubts concerning its implementation rose under the rampant corruption state. Privatization can be seen as a tool for corruption, as the market value of assets can create a margin that can be easily filled by bribes. A BOT (Build, Operate, Return) and a DBO (Design-Build-Operate) can be seen as good types of public-private partnerships and can constitute a good therapy for the current economic situation. They can constitute a good solution if the projects companies obtain their revenues throughout a determined period of time and through a fee charged to the utility. The problem is that PPPs contracts should be “Smart”. For, despite the fact that the Public-private partnerships (PPPs) can be at the forefront of the infrastructure development and management, such projects cannot sustain if corruption and lack of transparency persist. Applying the existing traditional PPPs contracts cannot be used for smart infrastructure and hence cannot optimize the desired solutions. By reforming, restructuring the existing models and shifting them to “Smart”, the PPPs contracts would be able to provide an adequate response to the smart infrastructure challenges. Smart PPP contracts can secure greater flexibility, faster project completion and reduced delays; despite the fact that they can, on the other hand, raise the government costs. Therefore a profound change of the existing regulatory and procurement models is needed, in order to ensure the equilibrium between transparency, efficiency and effectiveness. It is up to the Central Bank and to a new government to impose increasing the level of data traceability and integrity; the quality of the transaction monitoring activities; and to speed up the settlement; to reduce the risks and to reinforce the effectiveness of the internal controls and the Data Governance Requirements. A new government of experts should hence be born; a government that can instilll trust, integrity and confidence. A government that is able to accelerate all projects with appropriate skills and expertise. The Lebanese economy is fighting for its survival. Let us enforce the Laws and the judicial system, and create an immune system disconnected from family and political ties and their burden. Yes, we need privatization but not to sell the country to ‘the others” and become total strangers in our own country, as once told by the Central Bank Governor. Yes, we need to fight corruption; but this will need time as it is spread in all institutions. Only a shock government can come to the rescue. Let us prepare, organize, and invest in experts, away from sectarianism and confessionalism. We will hold them accountable for every step and every move, but let us at least give them a chance! Related Articles Lebanese troops open roads closed by protesters  Students protest against the university’s decision to resume classes  Protesters close roads, paralyzing Lebanon as crisis worsens

        Show Comments
      
