
# Dr Lavanya Wadgaonkar appointed global head of corporate communications at Nissan

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:46:40+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/dr-lavanya-wadgaonkar-appointed-head-global-corporate-communications-at-nissan/)

Japanese car major Nissan recently announced the appointment of Dr Lavanya Wadgaonkar as the General Manager and head of global corporate communications. The company mentions, "In her new role, she will be responsible for strengthening the company's reputation through executive communication, issues and crisis management, corporate narrative and media relations globally.
Dr Lavanya has over 25 years of international experience in strategic communications, public affairs, brand management, marketing and sustainability. Since 2016 she has led and developed the communications, and external and government affairs functions for Nissan Asia & Oceania. She previously led corporate communications and sustainability strategy for Nissan in India.Prior to joining Nissan in 2012, Lavanya worked at a printing company, Lexmark, petro-chemical conglomerate, Reliance and diversified power management company, Eaton, in various leadership roles in Communications & Marketing. Originally from Hyderabad in India, Lavanya holds a PhD, an MPhil, and a Master's degree from Osmania University.
The announcement of Dr Lavanya's new role at Nissan comes after the appointment of Makoto Uchida as the new CEO, Rakesh Srivastava as the new MD for Nissan India and Ashwani Gupta as COO. Lavanya also spent four years in India as the Vice President - Corporate Communications & CSR at Nissan India, overlooking the launches of vehicles like the Evalia and the Terrano.
