
# PH immigration officers to resume stamping Chinese passports with 9-dash line image

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:43:03+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Manila**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/manila/news/ph-immigration-officers-to-resume-stamping-chinese-passports-with-9-dash-line-image/)

Government officials will resume stamping Chinese passports that bear the controversial nine-dash line, the Bureau of Immigration announced today.
The announcement reverses the policy of the past seven years, wherein the Philippines had refused to stamp Chinese passports as a form of protest over the Asian superpower’s claims to the West Philippine Sea based on the nine-dash line, an arbitrary and legally indefensible demarcation China has used to justify its control of vast stretches of ocean.
The policy had been implemented upon the orders of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), which was then headed by Albert del Rosario. It was Del Rosario who led the Philippine government’s team to victory in its arbitration case against China at the United Nations-backed Permanent Court of Arbitration in 2016. The court ruled in favor of the Philippines and invalidated China’s claim over the West Philippine Sea.
When the Philippines was still refusing to stamp the nine-dash passports, the DFA would instead print Philippine visas on a separate sheet of paper for Chinese citizens. Immigration officials, in turn, would stamp these pieces of paper upon a Chinese traveler’s arrival in the Philippines.
However, the DFA is now again printing the visas in the pages of the Chinese passports themselves, and Immigration Commissioner Jaime Morente has instructed his officers to place their stamp right next to the Philippine visas.
Morente said he supported the DFA’s new rule, and said the old practice of stamping on a separate sheet of paper was a security concern “because sheets of papers can easily be lost.”
