
# Get discounted flights for UAE National Day holiday

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:28:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/travel/421941-get-discounted-flights-for-uae-national-day-holiday)

With a three-day public holiday coming up this December for UAE National Day, you can be sure many of us our vacation bucket-lists. And Holiday Factory is here to help you out.
The Dubai-based tour operator is offering huge discounts on special vacations to top spots across the Middle East, Europe and beyond, with prices starting at Dhs1,399. Get booking.
What places are on offer? Check out Salalah, Oman’s Arabian Sea beaches for Dhs1,399, picturesque canyons in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan priced at Dhs1,999 or one of the oldest cities in the world, Beirut, Lebanon for Dhs2,499.
There’s also your chance to visit Yerevan and Tsaghkadzor in Armenia, and Amman in Jordan Both priced at Dhs2,399, or Baku, Azerbaijan for Dhs2,499.
Even better, each package involves return flights, hotel stays, a dedicated tour guide to take you around the destinations top spots and airport transfers. All-inclusive package, indeed.
There are plenty of other destinations on offer, but be quick, as some of them only last 24 hours. Check them all out and start planning your vacation by visiting www.holiday-factory.com.
The public holiday for Commemoration Day falls on Sunday December 1, followed by a two-day holiday for UAE National Day on December 2 and 3.
If you’re after quicker getaways, here are seven short escapes from Dubai that take under four hours to get there. Short and sweet.
Looking for some of the best UAE staycation deals to take on? We’ve got them rounded-up right here.
Visit www.holiday-factory.com.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
