
# Gift Guide 2019: The Best Stocking Stuffers For Kids

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Vivienne Decker**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/viviennedecker/2019/11/01/gift-guide-2019-the-best-stocking-stuffers-for-kids/)

The stocking stuffer is one of the best parts of the holiday season. And every family has a different tradition. While some open stockings the night before, as a little prelude to all the excitement to come, my family always opened them after all the presents were unwrapped, to top off the morning. The best stocking stuffers are ones that will excite wonder and curiosity, and beg to be opened right away. Here are my favorite picks for children.
A challenging puzzle that goes from cube to an action figure capable of holding dozens of poses, this block is made from beech wood, making it an eco-friendly toy that is a perfect stocking stuffer.

        SHOP NOW
      
This Melissa & Doug Water Wow! Activity Pack is a certain hit. With three kits, it’s perfect for little boys and girls to work on their animals, alphabet and numbers. It comes in especially handy during holiday travel, whether by air, plane or train.

        SHOP NOW
      
Capture family moments while training the eye of the next Diane Arbus or Man Ray. This amazing mini instant camera is sure to get any child taking pictures right away.

        SHOP NOW
      
Everyone has fond memories of playing with Play-Doh as a kid, and this long sleeve of assorted colors is the perfect thing to fit down a long stocking. Make it a family activity, and get crafty with everyone making their own Play-Doh snowmen.

        SHOP NOW
      
With thousands of positive Amazon reviews, the verdict is in: Everyone needs a Flingshot Slingshot Flying Screaming Monkey. This stuffer promises the whole family will giggle as the monkey flies across the room.

        SHOP NOW
      
This headlamp is perfect for outdoor enthusiasts or late-night readers. Whether your child takes it digging for gold or on their next bedtime-reading adventure, every kid can benefit from a classic headlamp.

        SHOP NOW
      
This Kindle Kids Edition promises no ads or videos, just access to thousands of books including Mary Poppins and Frozen. What I like best about this edition, is that it comes with features like a Vocabulary Builder, which makes flash cards out of words that are looked up within the Kindle, and Word Wise, which offers short definitions which automatically appear next to difficult words.

        SHOP NOW
      
Get crafty and paint and assemble your own custom race car with this Melissa & Doug set. Perfect for an afternoon family activity, this set comes with everything you will need to make a one-of-a-kind toy.

        SHOP NOW
      
This Mini Drone is the perfect altitude-defying gadget for kids fascinated with flight. With the press of one button, this quadcopter will take off and explore, performing stunts and buzzing around inside the house or the great outdoors.

        SHOP NOW
      
I love Ridley’s collection of classic games, and what could be more fun to put down a Christmas stocking than an old school box of Pick Up Sticks. This set is chic enough to be displayed instead of tucked away in a toy closet.

        SHOP NOW
      
