
# A homegrown festival of art

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jayanthi Madhukar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/a-homegrown-festival-of-art/articleshow/71858572.cms)

The annual show will focus on emerging artists and their innovations, and will feature a film festivalFrom discarded cycle parts, computer innards to AI-generated algorithms, artworks and installations at the ninth edition of Art Bengaluru will display innovation. This year will see 21 artists displaying their take on creativity at a place mostly visited by fashionistas and diners. How will the twain meet? While art is touted to transcend boundaries, Abhishek Naidu, the curator of the festival, believes that it would attract collectors, artists and art lovers. He spoke about what a viewer could expect this year. “Almost all the artists we have featured this year are new to Art Bengaluru although some, such as the Dutch photographer, Daan Oude Elferink, are returning to the space. Also, the focus is on non-abstract works.” About 200 of the artworks on display will include paintings, hand-blown glass sculptures, installations, video art projects, 3D printed sculptures, photography, mixed media and digital art. A section will be devoted to four young emerging artists, of which three are differently-abled. “This year we decided to showcase younger and emerging artists as last year we had focussed on senior artists,” Naidu says. But he is excited about the participation of senior artist RM Palaniappan from Chennai. “He hasn’t done a show for a while and it is befitting that he has chosen the festival to present his works,” Naidu points out. A well-known printmaker, Palaniappan was responsible for the setting up of the Lalit Kala Akademi Regional Centre in Chennai in the year 1982. His extraordinary use of etching plates has been of interest to art lovers.
This year, we decided to showcase younger artists as last year we had focussed on seniors
– Abhishek NaiduAt the other end of the spectrum is the new media artist Harshit Agrawal. This city-based artist will be showing works based on algorithms. The artist uses a computer’s intelligence to create art based on the inputs he makes. Usually, most of the AI-generated art is about a computer being programmed to create an optical common denominator from the vast data fed to it – in terms of paintings and other artworks – and then printed out. But acknowledging the issues plaguing the environment is a fifty-five feet high installation by Haribabu Natesan, made entirely of metal scrap and other such refuse. The artist aims to provoke people to think about the materials they consume. This is bound to make an interesting juxtaposition to the glitzy ambience of a mall. Hopefully, the irony won’t be missed. Talking about the stature of the festival, which the organisers call as the biggest in the city, founder Uzma Irfan notes, “This year, we will be carrying forward the tradition with new artists – some established, others emerging. As we work to unite the art community, our focus is on promoting investment in art.” Attend Art Bengaluru, from November 2 to 30, at UB City, details: artbengaluru.in To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
