
# This Week Argos is Giving You 20% off All Toys

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:00:48+00:00**

Author: **Tom Pritchard**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/this-week-argos-is-giving-you-20-off-all-toys/)

For the past  few weeks Argos has been offering 20 per cent discounts on different toy brands, including Lego, Nerf, Play-doh, and others. This week, however, things are being mixed up a bit. Instead of discounting a specific toy or brand, Argos is knocking 20 per cent off them all. Every single one, including all your favourites, with the only catch being you have to spend more than £20.
Considering how expensive toys are these days, that's not going to be difficult.
It's another of the retailer's 'Crazy Code' discounts, which are running weekly until after Christmas. The advantage to this is that not only are you saving money with a code, that discount also stacks on top of other discounted toys. For instance the Lego Boost Droid Commander robotics kit has already had £48.50 knocked off the RRP, but an extra 20 per cent off means it'll cost you £96 instead of the usual £168.50. That's a pretty spectacular deal, and it's just one of many you could exploit.
All you need to do is enter the code TOYS20 during the checkout process. Interestingly this week Argos also makes a note that the code can be used in-store, telling you to quote the code when you get there. In other words, you don't necessarily need to pay online if you're planning on picking up some of these deals. And since you can reserve stuff for up to two days without paying, it means you won't turn up and find Argos has run out of that thing you or your kid desperately wants.
Just remember that this deal is only valid until the end of the day on Tuesday 12th November, after which a different offer will kick off.

        Photo by Shitota Yuri on Unsplash
      
