
# 2020 Mercedes-Benz V-Class Elite MPV launched in India at Rs 1.1 crore

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:13:26+00:00**

Author: **Tuhin Guha  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/2020-mercedes-benz-v-class-elite-mpv-launched-in-india-at-rs-1-1-crore/)

Mercedes-Benz India has launched the Mercedes-Benz V-Class Elite MPV in India at Rs 1.1 crore, ex-showroom. This is the flagship model in the V-Class line-up. V-Class Elite sits above the two V-Class variants which are already available in India and were launched in January 2019. The Elite is available with a two-year/30,000km Star Ease maintenance package for Rs 1.09 lakh.
The V-Class now gets minor updates to its styling. There is a new diamond-mesh pattern to the grille and a new bumper with a much wider air dam. There are three new paint shades as well. On the inside, the horizontally slatted air vents have been replaced by the new turbine-style designs while there are new dials in the instrument cluster. Also new is the Tartufo Nappa leather upholstery colour and the patterned gloss black dash finish. A new feature is that the second-row gets powered, reclining seats as standard, similar to the one seen on the S-Class. Also, the centre console is not cooled, these also house heated/cooled cup holders.
The Elite now also gets a new drivetrain. The V 220d is now available with the BSVI compliant 2.0-litre 4-cylinder OM 654 diesel engine in its 165PS and 380Nm iteration. This, as in the latest C and E-Class, is now paired with the brand's 9G-Tronic nine-speed torque convertor automatic.
The V-Class Elite is now the top-trim in the V-Class line-up. This model has sold in triple digit units, this is higher than what Mercedes expected, hence the new variant.
