
# Where to move your money to save £620 for Christmas - explained

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/move-your-money-save-620-20827032)

With just seven weeks left until Christmas, families are running out of time to get their finances sorted for the festive period.
And with energy bills rising and inflation continuing to bite, those who don't plan ahead could find themselves in heaps of debt come January.
According to credit reference agency Clearscore, the average person found themselves in £3,600 in the red after last Christmas, factoring in all of their credit cards.
And bad habits are making it all worse.
Forgetting to pay your credit card balance off in full each month, for example, could incur huge interest penalties - which currently average at 18.19% of the full amount owed.
This means that if you are £3,600 in debt and only pay the minimum payment every month, you could see a further £620 added to your Christmas bill, rising to an alarming £1,403 if you had the highest interest rate card currently in the market.
Justin Basini, at Cleascore, said: "Using credit over the festive period is common and shouldn’t create a Christmas credit hangover if you plan ahead. The key is spreading the repayments across the year in a way that avoids unnecessary interest.
"That means making savvy choices about the right card for you before you start spending, alleviating the repayment of existing debt, or quickly switching to the right option in the new year. Failing to do so means you risk racking up unnecessary extra interest costs and doing damage to your credit score.”
Here are some ways to get on top of your spending before it even begins.
If you have existing debt, it might be worth transferring it to a balance transfer card ahead of Christmas to free yourself from the worry of having to pay off your debt over the Christmas period.
Balance transfer cards usually charge 0% for a fixed period with an additional one-off fee to transfer the balance.
For example, a card with a 3% balance transfer fee and a 0% introductory offer for 12 months could save you £142 on an existing balance of £1,000 if you pay the minimum required each month.
With a balance of £4,000, you could stand to save over £560.  
Of course for any new purchases for Christmas 2019, consumers need to make sure that they are paying off their balance in full every month, otherwise they risk paying interest on their new purchases.
See more on balance transfer credit cards, here .
*Source: Moneyfacts.co.uk
If you don’t have any existing debt and want to spread the cost of your Christmas shopping, a 0% purchase card could be a smart way to avoid interest over the festive period.
Switching to a purchase card with a 12-month introductory rate could save you a maximum of £344 on a £2,000 balance if you pay off the minimum balance each month.
This means you can then pay off the balance in stages, but the key difference is that every penny goes towards eliminating the debt, rather than paying off interest.
*Source: Money.co.uk
