
# England’s World Cup final defeat by South Africa proves Warren Gatland was right

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:51:28+00:00**

Author: **Nick Evans**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/england-south-africa-rugby-world-cup-final-new-zealand)


        Eddie Jones’s team played their ‘final’ against the All Blacks and could not reproduce this level when it mattered most
      
Warren Gatland was right about England after all. They played their “final” against the All Blacks and what struck me most is that their defeat by South Africa was so similar, just in reverse. Just as England stopped the All Blacks from playing, so the Springboks did the same to Eddie Jones’s side.
I have wondered before that if you can stop England’s power game, stop them at the gainline, will they have the answers? In this instance, I would actually say that England did at least have some, just not enough against an inspired South Africa. It’s not as if England did not have any ideas, which is something that maybe they could have been accused of in the recent past.
We saw them trying to adapt. Jones made changes by bringing on Joe Marler and George Kruis. I could see what they were trying to do with their kick-chase – make the tackle and force the penalty and control things from there but while it had an impact early in the second half South Africa countered.
What a difference a week makes. England just could not get the kind of start that they did against the All Blacks. They could not get ahead and control territory to squeeze the life out of the Springboks. The opposite happened. I’ve been so impressed with England’s attack in the tournament but at one point in the second half Manu Tuilagi got the ball and up until then you would not have known he was playing.
It would be easy to accuse England of nerves but I do not necessarily think that was the case. They would have been nervous before the semi-final. I speak from experience when I say that is when nerves are at their worst. You just want to get to the final, you are desperate to but once you get there, you loosen up a little. Maybe that was England’s problem, they were just a little bit too relaxed.
Nothing was sticking in the early part of the match. Against the All Blacks, everything was so fluid, England found their rhythm immediately. The Vunipolas made yards, so did Tuilagi, but this time they were not able to. They could not get the ball wide to their back three. Against New Zealand it was two big carries and then out wide but we did not see that. And that is when you see errors creep in like when Ben Youngs threw a pass out on the full. Or Billy Vunipola’s carry off the back of a scrum and then his loose pass. It was the right option, you can’t really fault England’s decision-making but their execution let them down.
