
# Turnkey Decentralized Exchange Apollo Launches Beta Platform for Fully Private Transactions and Atomic Swaps

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:15:36+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CCN.com](https://www.ccn.com/turnkey-decentralized-exchange-apollo-launches-beta-platform-for-fully-private-transactions-and-atomic-swaps/)

Apollo, the all-in-one cryptocurrency that comprehensively meets every currency need ever imagined by users, has now made available its decentralized exchange (DEX) for public use.
Launched in beta, the Apollo DEX now compliments the full-feature blockchain that offers an entire range of token generation services, while guaranteeing that transactions are 100% private.
Taking a cue from the original concepts of cryptocurrency which revolved around the idea of independence, the Apollo Foundation introduces its beta DEX with a much-anticipated feature from the entire industry: atomic swaps.
One of the shortcomings of DEXs in the past has been the fact that DEX platforms have been restricted to their blockchain platforms, with access only to tokens built on the same platform. But with atomic swaps, tokens and assets can be exchanged across different platforms, and without a centralized entity to govern it, this ensures assets remain fully in the owner’s control.
Steve McCullah, Apollo’s Director of Business Development explained that Apollo DEX was designed to be one of the safest ways available to trade crypto:
Whereas rival projects have unrealistic plans of industry disruption, wasting years on conceptual work, Apollo has focused on putting theory into practical use. The idea is for the DEX to be tested in actual conditions, for practical use by everyday crypto users.
The team at Apollo concluded that even with an estimated 1 million transactions per second (TPS) capacity of the ARK consensus, “fast” is still not as good as it could be. McCullah reiterated the ambition of Apollo’s 2020 Vision as a “next-generation, post-blockchain cryptocurrency” that would move beyond traditional blockchains to more advanced directed acyclic graph (DAG) consensus. He stated:

         “This technology will put Apollo’s features above the competition. With an expected TPS (transactions per second) of at least one million, Apollo will offer capabilities surpassing anything on the market today.”
      
As such, the strategy encompasses the development of a decentralized ecosystem of connected products and technologies, operational via Apollo blockchain and APL Coin. This includes:
Trust and adoption are also considered crucial, alongside ambitions of building the most powerful decentralized internet and a fair fee-based system of unlimited file storage. In this light, Apollo Blockchain will drive its Mass Adoption initiative to target the African continent, via its ADF group partnership, opening access to 1.2 billion people in 54 countries. A lite wallet mobile app with QR and merchant features will be the main thrust for adoption.
Apollo is negotiating with at least three governments there, and has already opened several “Apollo Banks”.
Apollo is the world’s fastest blockchain, enabling fully confirmed blockchain transactions in a mere 2 seconds — something that seemed light-years away just a year ago. Speed isn’t just the only distinguishing feature about Apollo either. This lightning-quick blockchain also has unrestricted scalability, has a well thought out solution for sustainability via database sharding, and a well-designed implementation of atomic swaps, that allows cross-functionality between different blockchains.
Any blockchain claiming to have all these features would present itself as one of the most promising digital assets in the modern space, with good prospects for holding and using.
Despite beginning less than two years ago, Apollo already looks like what many investors are seeking in an opportunity in terms of potential, backed up by the improvements to technology and solutions that the sector has collectively been developing.
APL, as the main currency of the blockchain, has demonstrated growth liquidity and is available on Bitmart and IDAX. 
To learn more about Apollo Coin, visit the website at https://apollocurrency.com/en/. To join discussions with their community, follow Apollo Coin on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

        
          This is a submitted sponsored story. CCN urges readers to conduct their own research with due diligence into the company, product or service mentioned in the content above.
        
      
