
# Illegal pork shipments from China tested positive for ASF

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:28:21+00:00**

Author: **Madelaine Miraflor**

Original: [Manila Bulletin Business](https://business.mb.com.ph/2019/11/04/illegal-pork-shipments-from-china-tested-positive-for-asf/)

The processed pork products illegally shipped from China to the Philippines recently were tested positive for African Swine Fever (ASF), the Department of Agriculture (DA) confirmed.
DA’s Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) Director Ronnie Domingo said in a press briefing today that the pork products in two cargo containers from China that were apprehended two weeks ago at the Port of Manila were found to be carrying ASF-infected processed products.
The consignee for the two containers was Jeniti International Trading, which operates in Binondo, Manila.
The pork shipments made it to Manila Port as they have been misdeclared to be containing tomato paste and vermicelli. To recall, the country has put in place a ban on the entry of pork products coming from ASF-hit countries like China, Hong Kong, Laos, Vietnam, Zambia, South Africa, Czech Republic, and Bulgaria since last year.
When asked if the smugglers involved in this issue have already been penalized, National Meat Inspection Service (NMIS) Executive Director Beata Obsioma said it’s now up to the Bureau of Customs (BOC) to do so.
Meanwhile, Domingo said further tests conducted by the DA confirmed that some pork products of Mekeni Food Corp. were indeed positive for ASF.
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) OIC Director-General Eric Domingo said his agency already wrote to Mekeni to explain why their products were contaminated with ASF.
