
# Fizdale Does Not Mince Words After Knicks Dominated by Sacramento

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Sheridan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chrissheridan/2019/11/03/fizdale-does-not-mince-words-after-knicks-dominated-by-sacramento/)

NEW YORK – Gotta hand it to Dave Fizdale, coach of the New York Knicks. He did not mince words after D’Aaron Fox carved up his team and forced the fans to the exits of Madison Square Garden early in the third quarter Sunday evening.“Just a crap game. We had nothing,” Fizdale said after a 113-92 loss. “But to keep it in perspective, we’ve had six crap quarters this season, and three of them happened in this game.”
The worst team in the Eastern Conference dropped to 1-6 with the loss, and the Frank Ntilikina-as-starting-point-guard experiment did not go well as he was first the starting unit for the second straight game.
The French guard, who was drafted in the same class as Fox, picked up two quick fouls and was held to 2 points and three assists in just 15 minutes.
Fizdale, who has used five different starting lineups in the Knicks’ seven games, said he would review the videotape before deciding what to do for the next game against Detroit ... a game in which Ntilikina may have a better chance to succeed with Reggie Jackson out for the Pistons with a back injury.
Also, Derrick Rose missed the last game with a hamstring injury .. although he will probably relish making some noise in his return to the arena where he was once a potential savior.
Yes, there have been a lot of those for the Knicks. And the latest is R.J. Barrett, who continued a strong rookie campaign with 22 points in 41 minutes.
Do not expect him to see much piune timee over the remaining 76 games.
“He’s got the dance floor,” Fizdale said. “We have to get over this load management crap. Latrell Sprewell used to average 42 minutes per game.
Wilt Chamberlain once averaged more than 48 minutes per game, but that is a story for a different time and place.
In today’s NBA, there are so many rebuilding teams having mixed results. Witness Miami’s success against Houston on Sunday night, for example. It is actually painful to watch this latest version of the Knicks try to play as a cohesive unit. They look utterly lost.
The Kings, by the way, are not exactly the cat’s meow. They came in with the NBA’s 30th best offense (also known as worst), and they have had losses of 29 points in their opener against Phoenix and 32 against Utah in Game No. 3.
And they have Fox, who was taken three spots ahead of Ntilikina in the 2017 draft.
The third-year guard from Kentucky said one of the reasons he is excelling this season (he wasn’t all that bad last season) is because he has played for coaches who have let him learn with extended playing time – the polar opposite of what Ntilikina has experienced with the Knicks under Jeff Hornacek and Fizdale.
“Coming into the league, I just wanted to be a player who could stick with a team. I’ve had coaches who have let me play though mistakes, and that helps with confidence. It’s taken me 2 1/2 years to do that.”
After Ntilikina picked up his second foul 4 1/2 minutes into the game with the Knicks trailing 10-9, New York had no one who could handle Fox’s blazing speed. Fizdale called him a “blur.”
The score was 46-30 by the time Ntilikina returned midway through the second quarter, and the game was non-competitive the rest of the way. A good number of the patrons decided to find better things to do well before Ignas Bradzeikis, Wenyen Gabriel and Justin James closed out garbage time.
So this is shaping up as yet another lost season for the Knicks, and at a certain point someone is going to be the fall guy. That’s how it always happens in New York. Somebody is blamed, a new “savior” is brought in, and rebuild after rebuild keeps the fan base out of the building, with tourists filling the seats.
Somewhere upstairs, Red Holtzman is frowning.
