
# Why Chiefs Coach Has Left For Japan…

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/a-kaizer-chiefs-coach-has-flown-out-to-japan/666878)

While they fight for supremacy at the top of the Absa Premiership table, a Kaizer Chiefs coach has jetted out to Japan for a chance at a ‘big milestone’. 

        Read: Injury Update For Table-Topping Chiefs As Superstar Misses Trip
      
Rory Minaar, who is the youth and reserve team goalkeeper coach at Naturena, has been given a call-up by Desiree Ellis to join her technical team for this weekend’s friendly encounter with Japan, and the club has given him permission to honour his national call-up. 
A statement on Chiefs’ official website said, “Kaizer Chiefs youth and Reserve teams’ goalkeeper coach Rory Minnaar travelled on Tuesday with Banyana Banyana to Japan for a friendly game to be played between the South African Women’s National team and the 2011 FIFA WWC winners, the Japanese Women’s National team on the 10th of November.
“The South African women’s team will come face to face with Japan at the Mikuni World Stadium Kitakyushu, in Kitakyushu on Sunday.”
The coach will work closely with Andile Dlamini, Kaylin Swart and Jessica Williams over the coming days before helping Ellis and her technical team make a decision on who should start against the Japanese, and he says that it is big moment for him.
Speaking about the opportunity, Minaar told the site, “Being called up to Banyana Banyana for the international friendly against Japan is a big milestone for me in my coaching career… It is important for me to contribute to women’s football as it is still growing, as we strive towards competing with the top nations in the Women’s game globally.” 

        Read: Amakhosi Star - It’s No Different For Sundowns & Pirates…
      
Banyana travelled to Japan via Hong Kong and will go through a few days training in their host’s country ahead of this weekend’s tie.  
