
# Vatican’s Conference Confronts AI, Technology and Morality

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Elizabeth Fernandez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/fernandezelizabeth/2019/11/04/vaticans-conference-confronts-ai-technology-and-morality/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Scientists, leaders in industry and labor, government officials and humanitarians gathered in the Vatican at the end of September for a three-day conference: The Common Good in the Digital Age. The goal of the conference was to reflect on how technology can move beyond being used mainly for profit to serve the good of all human beings.
Participants represented a range of cultures, expertise and ethnic backgrounds with representatives from NATO, Mozilla, Western Digital, the Markkula Center for Ethics at Santa Clara, Digital Innovation Hub, and Diginex speaking. Various peace organizations were also represented, as well as Professor Jody Williams, the Nobel Peace Price Laureate and chair of the Nobel Women’s Initiative.
“Humanity has entered a new era in which our technical prowess has brought us to a crossroads,” says Pope Francis in Laudato Si’, 102. “Technoscience, when well directed, can produce important means of improving the quality of human life . . . It can also produce art and enable men and women immersed in the material world to ‘leap’ into the world of beauty” (Laudato Si’, 103).
At the same time, though, ethical and moral judgments have not made similar leaps. “The economy accepts every advance in technology with a view to profit, without concern for its potentially negative impact on human beings,” says the Pope (Laudato Si’, 109).
Conference-goers discussed this ethical jump needed so that technology can serve the common good of all. Discussions ranged from AI, machine learning, cybersecurity, drones, nuclear weapons and effects of automation on the workforce.
Brian Patrick Green, from the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics at Santa Clara University, summed up the conference. “We are living in a world of incredible change, where one primary motivator is greed. However, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the pursuit of financial gain is not making the world a better place. If we want to improve the world, we need to collectively stop prioritizing greed and instead put human dignity and the common good first.”
