
# Man accused of Grace Millane murder 'Googled for flesh eating birds and vultures'

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:15:04+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-accused-grace-millane-murder-20829939)

The alleged killer of British backpacker Grace Millane searched 'flesh-eating birds' and 'are there vultures in New Zealand', a court heard.
Police found the browsing history on the phone of the 27-year-old man accused of strangling her to death, prosecutors say.
The defendant, who cannot be named for legal reasons, is on trial accused of murdering the 22-year-old Brit, although he claims she died by accident during rough sex.
The pair met through the dating app Tinder and were seen returning to the defendant's hotel apartment after a few drinks.
Detectives went through the alleged killer's phone and found pictures of what is believed to be intimate parts of Grace's body, a court heard.
Her mum Gillian left the court in tears as detective Samuel Luker described the photos.
Her father David looked directly at the defendant as the detective confirmed pornography was looked at on the defendant's phone as well.
The browsing took place on December 5, 2018, days after the defendant allegedly killed Grace.
He also Googled "the hottest fire" and "large bags near me", prosecutors say.
Another search on the phone was for "Waitakere Ranges", where Grace's body was later found contorted inside a suitcase.
The jury in the trial was shown a "significant amount" of security footage from bars where the two drank and kissed prior to her death.
Grace, from Wickford, Essex, was on a round-the-world trip when she arrived in New Zealand last November.
Detective Adam Bicknell told Auckland High Court that "just short of six terabytes of data, which is a significant amount" was examined from licensed venues, street cameras and the hotel where it is alleged Grace was killed.
The court was shown security footage of Grace leaving Base Backpackers hostel and walking to nearby Sky City, where she met the defendant and embraced him.
They went inside to Andy's Burgers & Bar, where they drank together before departing to drink some jugs of sangria at Mexican Cafe.
Grace is shown resting her chin briefly on the defendant's shoulder as he pays for their drinks at the cafe.
Cameras on the street show the pair then walking and intermittently holding hands on the way to Bluestone Room, where they sit at a table inside the front door.
They spend just over an hour at the venue, during which time the defendant leans across and kisses Grace, before then putting his hand on the back of her head and kissing her again.
Grace also messaged a female friend from university during her date, the court heard.
A letter by her friend, Ameena Ashcroft, was read to the jury and said she referred to "getting smashed" on the date and said the encounter was going "really good".
"'Mate, he lives in a hotel'," Grace messaged her friend.
"'You have to go to his apartment in the hotel, bet it's like the top floor'," Ameena replied.
"'He is coming to London next year'," Grace wrote.
She then sent what would be her final message: "'I click with him so well."'
The couple eventually left the bar and walked arm-in-arm down the street and into the lobby of City Life hotel at 9.40pm.
They enter the lifts and Grace follows the accused out to his apartment on the third floor at 9.41pm.
It is the last time she is seen alive - one day before her twenty second birthday.  
The trial continues. 
