
# George Ford's girlfriend is fashion designer and business owner Jess Portman

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/george-fords-girlfriend-fashion-designer-20748852)

George Ford has been one of the key cogs in the England team in their run to the Rugby World Cup Final.
He's a hard-worker on the pitch, but also one off it... and he was forced to play the long game when trying to hook up with his girlfriend, Jess Portman.
It took a year after Ford met Jess before they were officially dating, with the fashion designer eventually agreeing to go on a date with him.
The persistence is said to be something which Jess admires about Ford.
The pair first met six years ago and now after five years as an item, they are still going strong.
Jess has been cheering on Ford in Japan for the World Cup over the past week, as she takes a break from her business responsibilities.
After graduating from Manchester University, where she studied fashion promotions, she now owns her own company called Portman London UK, where he speciality is fashion design.
The business venture is a relatively new one, where she has been selling boho-inspired designed clothing.
She is regularly posting pictures of herself to her 15,000 Instagram followers and has been chronicling some of her time in Japan on social media.
She was pictured with a sign that read "Fordy" as she attended the World Cup semi-final win over New Zealand, where Ford played a part, alongside other wives and girlfriends.
Back home, Jess shares a house with Ford in Leicestershire, where she is form.
It is doubly ideal as it is close to where the fly-half is based for club rugby duty with the Leicester Tigers.
The pair do not have any kids just yet, but they do have a dog called Bailee.

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
