
# Eddie Howe banking on Joshua King to get one over on Man Utd mentor Ole Gunnar Solskjaer

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:56:52+00:00**

Author: **Alex Crook**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/eddie-howe-banking-joshua-king-20793002)

Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe is banking on Joshua King to put one over on mentor Ole Gunnar Solskjaer today.
Manchester United boss Solskjaer recommended King to Sir Alex Ferguson and also managed his fellow Norwegian in the Old Trafford reserves.
The 27-year-old striker quit United to join Blackburn in 2013 after growing frustrated at a lack of first-team appearances before moving to Bournemouth for a bargain £1million two years later.
Howe said: “I have never asked Joshua if he feels he has a point to prove to United because it was a long time ago now.
"I am one of Josh’s biggest supporters, I think he is a fantastic player. There is no ceiling to what he can achieve.”
United arrive on the south coast on the back of their best run of form since Solskjaer was handed the manager’s job full time.
The Red Devils are unbeaten in all competitions since returning from the international break and followed a 1-1 draw against league leaders Liverpool with wins over Partizan Belgrade, Norwich and Chelsea .
Howe said: “Looking at their last few games I think they have played really well.
“They have some excellent players and a very good manager.
“I think Ole has handled himself really well. It is such a big job with such a lot of pressure but he has done an excellent job to this point.”
Bournemouth can leapfrog United in the Premier League table with a win but Howe claims his team’s best is still to come.
Howe added: “It’s been OK so far this season. I would give us six out of ten. There is more to come.
"I genuinely believe we can achieve really good things this season.”
