
# Reports | Star Sports lining up MS Dhoni to join commentary team in Kolkata Test

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:30:01+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/reports-star-sports-lining-up-ms-dhoni-to-join-commentary-team-in-kolkata-test?utm_medium=rss)


        Host broadcasters Star, in an email to the BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, have revealed their plan to invite all of India's Test captains to commentate during the historic day-night Test against Bangladesh. The match is scheduled to be played at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata, starting on November 22.
      
While MS Dhoni’s comeback in the Indian team’s colours is still a mystery, host broadcaster Star has planned for the former Test captain to take the role of commentator in the upcoming historic day-night Test to be played against Bangladesh in Kolkata. India’s World Cup winning captain had taken a sabbatical after India’s exit from the 2019 World Cup but he could be seen as a 'guest' commentator for India's first-ever Day-Night Test match. The broadcasters have it planned and on BCCI’s approval, Dhoni will be seen in the commentary box on the opening day of the Test match.
"Invite India Test captains for Day 1 & 2 of the Test. All captains at the ground along with (Virat) Kohli and the rest of the team as well as the dignitaries line up for the anthem. Captains appear on commentary as guests through the day to recollect their favourite moments from India's Test history. Down memory lane segments recorded with individual captains are played on the big screen at the ground in breaks Day 4 onwards," reads the plan for the former India captains, as reported by IANS.
This will be the first time that Dhoni will be seen donning the role of a commentator.
