
# Keller Williams opens latest PH Market Center at BGC

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:30:12+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/05/keller-williams-opens-latest-ph-market-center-at-bgc/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
With Taguig’s Fort Bonifacio showing sustained buoyancy in the property market, the world’s largest real estate franchise by agent count Keller Williams recently opened its 8th market center on October 8 right at the heart of the thriving district.
On hand for the opening ceremonies held at the Avida Cityflex Tower 1 were the BGC 11, as the market center investors are popularly called, KW Fort Bonifacio Operating Principal David Cordero, Market Center Administrator Arthur Balmaceda, Technology Manager Arianne Symmes, Team Leader Evangeline Yia and Controlling Principals Bienvenido Alano, Michael Perez, Mary Cordero, Gina Lopez, Tony Lizardo, David Ng and Atty. Ernie Urbano.
The market center intends to provide developmental assistance to KW’s roster of real estate agents through in-house training, fully equipped workstations, and skills upgrading programs. Agents can also get convenient access to KW’s other market centers all over the country, property listings, technological tools, and earning opportunities.
“The main objective of KW in why it opened a market center here in Bonifacio Global City (BGC) is to provide professional quality services for our clients whether they are high-network investors or first-time buyers,” according to Cordero. “The opening also paved the chance for our agents and clients to meet our shareholders and affiliates,” he added. 
As the country continues to experience a real estate boom mainly attributed to robust economic growth, Fort Bonifacio along with the Manila Bay Area, showed the biggest growth in condominium units during the last quarter of the previous year according to online real estate insider www.globalpropertyguide.com.
“We set up the KW Fort Bonifacio Market Center as we plan to service the real needs of our clients who are mostly investors and owners,” according to Balmaceda. KW Fort Bonifacio hopes to promote service to all real estate clients here and worldwide. That’s basically the mission of our franchise here. We’re working with a lot of service-oriented companies and professionals to help us provide those needs in terms of title search, registration of ownerships, surveys, and such others,” he adds.
KW Philippines is backed by a team of leaders with more than 40 years of experience in residential, commercial and leisure real estate development. For four consecutive years, KW Realty has been named as a top training organization by Training Magazine and in 2016, was named the number one training organization across all industries worldwide.
For more details on KW Philippines, visit www.kwphilippines.com.
