
# Darts: Ross Montgomery back in the game after wife's illness

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Thomson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-thomson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/darts-ross-montgomery-back-game-20826420)

Ross ‘The Boss’ Montgomery insists it’s a huge achievement to make the preliminary round for the 2020 BDO World Championships after being rocked by his wife’s ill health.
The 57-year-old, from Greenhills, must win a prelim match for the first time in 12 years to ensure his place in the British Darts Organisation’s flagship event in January.
But The Boss is just thankful that wife Dorothy is on the mend following a worrying time for the Montgomery family.
He told the News: “The last six months have been difficult for me because my wife has not been well.
“Thankfully, everything is fine now and I’ve managed to get through to the qualifiers for the World Championships.
“But that was never my priority, so it’s a feat in itself that I’ve managed to get there.
“It’s not ideal, but at the end of the day I’ll take it.
“There were times when I really couldn’t concentrate and it was affecting my games, but my focus is back now and I managed to pull the results together to make the qualifiers.
“My wife and my sponsors backed me and it’s good to know I’ll be there, albeit I need to get through the qualifying round to reach the main draw.”
For the first time since 1985, the World Championships will not be played at the iconic Lakeside venue after a deal was agreed to switch the event to London’s Indigo at The O2. 
In his 12 appearances at Lakeside, Montgomery crashed out in the first round eight times.
He did reach the quarter-finals in 2015, but he’s happy to see the back of the Surrey venue, which has always proved problematic.
“It will be completely different, but I have heard good things about the venue,” said the Scotland international.
“For me personally, I’m looking forward to it. Lakeside, at times, has been annoying for me and I haven’t got a great record there, so maybe the change of scenery will do me good.
“I understand why people will be upset about it moving, because of the history of Lakeside and it is the home of darts, but I am glad it’s not going to be held there anymore.”
In recent months Montgomery has managed to reach the quarter-finals of the British Classic and Belfry Open in Belgium, as well as playing for Scotland in the World Cup in Romania, where they finished ninth.
Next up is the Czech Open in Prague on November 15-17 and the Italian Grand Masters from November 23-24.
“These events will be the last chance to warm-up before the World Championships because there’s no longer the Finders Masters [in Holland] in December anymore, so I’m hoping for some good performances.
“I’m starting to feel better about my game again. There’s nothing niggling at the back of mind now.
“Being in the prelims for the Worlds, I’ll have to work that bit harder than I have previously and that could push me on.”
The BDO World Championships get underway on January 4, 2020.
 
