
# Latest WhatsApp update lets you control who can add you to a group

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:49:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/latest-whatsapp-update-lets-you-control-who-can-add-you-group?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: WhatsApp
      
In April this year, WhatsApp rolled out new privacy setting that gave users greater control over who can add them to groups. The setting allowed users to choose from three options: "Everyone", "My Contacts", or "Nobody." WhatsApp has now replaced the "Nobody" option with a new "My Contacts Except" option, based on feedback from users during the initial rollout of the privacy-centric feature.
The new "My Contacts Except" option makes it possible for users to exclude specific contacts or "select all." Regardless of what setting you choose, however, people can still send you private invites to join a group. The invite will automatically expire after three days if you do not accept it.
WhatsApp says the new changes are now rolling out as part of the latest version of the app to Android users around the world. If you have the latest WhatsApp version installed on your device, you will be able to find the new option by tapping on Settings > Account > Privacy > Groups.
These changes come just a week after the addition of the fingerprint lock feature to the WhatsApp Android app. When the feature is enabled, you will need to scan your fingerprint to be able to open the app and access all your chats.

        How to set up and start using WhatsApp for Android
      

        Better battery life Samsung Galaxy S11e leak hints at significantly improved battery life A new leak suggests the Galaxy S11e will be equipped with a much bigger battery than the Galaxy S10e.
      

        Old-school Android Do you still root and mod your Android phones? Rooting and modding Android phones used to be incredibly popular, but in recent years, the urge to do this seems to have died down. Do you still like to tinker with your devices?
      

        Here we go! Amazon's big Black Friday sales on its hardware kick off November 22 If you were wondering when you would be able to get your hands on Amazon's devices for less during Black Friday, the answer is here. The company will be staggering the deals with the first set of price drops taking place on November 22.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
