
# Re-Analyzing Your B2B Martech Stack

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lisa Joy Rosner**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescommunicationscouncil/2019/11/06/re-analyzing-your-b2b-martech-stack/)

When I talk to my peers at other business-to-business (B2B) companies, I hear a lot of opinions about the marketing technology landscape: a growing stack, a constant stream of new solutions to investigate, overlapping capabilities, amazing results and high expectations that don’t always pan out. It’s no wonder it is overwhelming. There are thousands of technologies to choose from, featuring buzzwords like “powered by AI” and “ML.”Over the last year, I have been in the unique position of building a B2B martech stack from scratch to scale my startup, Otonomo. I have also built systems for larger public companies. Here’s what I have learned.

        1. Data is king, so start there.
      
Data is how you determine exactly what you have accomplished and improve your results going forward. It is also usually the biggest hairball in martech stacks. When I think about B2B marketing data, I look through a similar lens that my technology team uses for car data:
• It needs to be clean and de-duped. Given the variety of data cleansing solutions that are purpose-built for B2B data, no one should be trying to do this manually today.
• It needs to be aggregated at the level that matters to my business — that is, accounts. Otonomo sells to large buying groups, like many other B2B companies. Behavior from individual leads is interesting, but it doesn’t necessarily mean that one of our large accounts is ready to engage with us.
• It needs to be rich — that is, provide insight into what actually drives progression through the customer journey.
One critical decision you need to make is whether you’re marketing to individual buyers with sole purchase discretion, accounts or both. Account-based marketing requires a foundational data layer that exists within customer relationship management (CRM) systems but not in marketing automation systems. To measure and execute marketing activities at the account level, you will need to do a lot of creative spreadsheet or CRM report/smart list manipulation, or implement an account-based platform to marry CRM and marketing automation data.

        2. Map your metrics to your own unique customer journey.
      
Generic marketing and sales funnels make a good starting point for your metrics, but you need to analyze your own customer journey and devise metrics that map to it. This has never been more important for me than in my current role; we actually have two journeys that matter: automotive manufacturers and service providers who build apps. The former are very large companies with many people involved in the buying process, while the latter can range from small startups to established technology companies to nimble innovation groups within larger companies. We live in an account-based marketing world, but with very different types of accounts.
Finally, the rise of recurring revenue in many types of B2B businesses is causing the traditional marketing funnel to grow wider since the post-sale customer experience matters a lot. During my tenure at MyBuys and NetBase, I experienced the early stage of the software as a service (SaaS) business model. My team and I learned a lot as we built programs to complement the company’s customer success activities.

        3. Weigh new martech based on the strategies that matter to you.
      
There’s a lot of noise in the martech world. But regardless of the promised benefits, you should only invest in martech that aligns with your overall go-to-market approach. If your success depends on winning a handful of big accounts, predictive analytics and fit scores won’t be of help. If you’re marketing to traditional executives who are concentrated in one place, an old-fashioned billboard might be more effective than display ads targeted at accounts.
On the other hand, complex customer journeys demand an effective multitouch attribution solution. Each interaction that B2B buyers have with your brand moves them closer to you — regardless of whether those interactions happen in the digital world or the physical one. You need to measure the impact of everything you do.

        4. Arm your team to share your insights with sales and executives.
      
The insights captured in marketing data have potential benefits across the organization, and the “data love” you give to your other stakeholders can have a high payback. At Otonomo, we have read-only dashboards that are easy to view. We send them out with an “insights summary,” so everyone can understand what we’re doing in marketing and how it relates to their work.

        5. Consider open-source software.
      
CRM and marketing automation are now mature technologies, but they can consume a big chunk of your martech budget. Depending on your team’s talents and the complexity of your business, open-source software might just be for you.

        6. Invest in people, not just systems.
      
Remember that the best martech stack in the world will never guarantee success. You need the right plan and the right talent to execute that plan. You can build the perfect audience for a campaign and still miss the mark if the creative, copy and images don’t speak to your potential customers. Balance is the name of the game.

        7. Remember the end goal.
      
In my first chief marketing officer (CMO) role at a public company, I remember taking my marketing plan to my CEO for the first time. He told me, “I don’t care about anything except three letters: E, P and S. You can measure what you want, but at the end of the day, we will know your work is making a difference if the stock goes up.” This made a big impact on me and has stayed with me.
At a later company, my team built dashboards that could tie marketing activities to our company’s stock price. It was one of the happiest moments of my career when the CEO could tell investors that the added investment into marketing was really paying off.
What are the most important metrics that you think marketing should track? I’d love to hear how you do it!
