
# IND vs BAN | Bangladesh's predicted XI for first T20I in Delhi

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:32:01+00:00**

Author: **Anuj Nitin Prabhu**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/ind-vs-ban-bangladeshs-predicted-xi-for-first-t-20-i-in-delhi?utm_medium=rss)


        A Shakib-less Bangladesh side will be under tremendous pressure as they take on a mighty Indian side in their own backyard. Shakib Al Hasan has been Bangladesh's talisman for the past decade and his absence will hurt the team big time, but will also provide opportunities to some youngsters.
      
Soumya Sarkar: Soumya Sarkar will have to take more responsibility in the absence of star opener Tamim Iqbal to provide brisk starts for Bangladesh. He will be one of the major hopes for Bangladesh posting daunting totals and his experience will be key for other youngsters in the squad to bat around him. His golden arm will also help skipper Mahmudullah to squeeze out a few overs out of him if needed and his wicket-taking ability might be of great use for the team in crunch times.
Liton Das: Liton Das has been consistently opening for Bangladesh of late and will be instrumental along with Sarkar to give Bangladesh a steady start, especially by making full use of the fielding restrictions during the powerplay. His intelligent shot selection and ability to hit big shots will help in scoring those extra runs up top when the fielders are inside the circle. 
Mohammad Naim: Mohammad Naim is an unknown commodity and is yet to make his debut in international cricket. He has been impressive with his performances, most recently against the Sri Lanka A side, and with Shakib absent from the squad, this will be a great chance for the youngster to express himself and play freely.
Mohammad Mithun: Mohammad Mithun was always tipped to be a great batsman but has not quite yet been able to do justice to his potential. In the absence of Shakib at number three, who will be replaced by the inexperienced Naim, Mithun certainly has the chance to support the youngster and create an impact by producing good consistent performances for his team.
Mushfiqur Rahim: Perhaps Bangladesh's most important batsman, Mushfiqur Rahim will be the fulcrum of the team and will have the responsibility to control the Bangladesh batting in the middle overs. In Shakib's absence, his experience will be crucial for the team and he will be a mentor to skipper Mahmudullah during the entirety of the series. Mushfiqur will have to keep one end intact in order to let the others express themselves from the other end.
Mahmudullah: Mahmudullah will captain the side in absence of their talisman Shakib. The all-rounder is the second most experienced person in the team after Mushfiqur and will be looking to lead by example. He has begun bowling of late and his off-spin can come in handy if spinners get grip and turn and his finishing ability will also be key to Bangladesh going hard in the final overs and posting a huge score. If Bangladesh have to do well, Mahmudullah will have to be at the top of his game.
Atif Hossain: 20-year-old Atif Hossain impressed one and all with his fearless and counter-attacking style of play in the recently concluded T20I tri-series between Bangladesh, Zimbabwe, and Afghanistan. Bangladesh were 60 for 6 against Zimbabwe when Atif strung a magnificent partnership of 82 off 47 balls with Mosaddek Hossain, scoring a blistering 52 off just 26 balls and helping Bangladesh win in a rain-curtailed game. He will be a valuable asset down the order and will also be a handy spin bowler if required.
Mosaddek Hossain: Mosaddek has similar big-hitting ability to that of Atif and he, himself, is also a handy spinner. He showed in the partnership with Atif against Zimbabwe that he can take the game to the opposition when his team is under the pump and so will form an important part of Bangladesh's lower middle-order to provide some late impetus to the innings. 
Mustafizur Rahman: One of the first names on the team sheet, Mustafizur will play an important part with the new ball and at the death with his variations and subtle changes of pace. He will spearhead the Bangladesh bowling attack and will be Mahmudullah's biggest weapon to unleash when the need arises.
Shafiul Islam: The 30-year-old is a seasoned campaigner and will be providing support to Mustafizur in the absence of their go-to death bowler Mohammad Saifuddin. Shafiul will look to pick early wickets up top by using his ability to swing the ball and will be a valuable death bowler should he hit the right line and length.
Arafat Sunny: 33-year-old Arafat Sunny had last played a T20I for Bangladesh in 2016 versus Pakistan. But after impressive performances in the Bangladesh Premier League and domestic matches, he has been rewarded with a call-up to the national side. With Shakib's left-arm spin missing from the team and with him having more experience than Taijul Islam, Sunny will be looking to spring a surprise on Sunday. 
