
# The week in radio and podcasts: Haunted Women; Homeless Bodies and Other Stories

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:30:07+00:00**

Author: **Miranda Sawyer**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/nov/03/haunted-women-homeless-bodies-and-other-stories-review)


        A history of women ghost writers provided chills galore – and six items from the Wellcome collection sparked scarier stories still
      
Haunted Women (Radio 4) | BBC SoundsHomeless Bodies and Other Stories (Audible)
Let’s ignore all today’s lurching ghouls, swallow our universal sense of creeping dread and frighten ourselves silly with some proper ghosts, shall we? Audio is the perfect scary medium – if you don’t agree, just watch a horror film with the sound down and laugh at how unfrightened you are – and Halloween week brought some excellent programmes tiptoeing creepily out from the shadows.
Radio 4’s Haunted Women, produced by Eleanor McDowall, was as fabulous as you would expect from this remarkable, and remarkably creative, audio-maker. McDowall recently won a Prix Europa award for A Sense of Quietness, her documentary about Irish women coming to the UK for abortions, and I’ve reviewed a lot of her work for this column, including the recent House of Dreams.
Clearly, McDowall is a brilliant interviewer, but it’s her use of sound that sets her storytelling apart, and in Haunted Women, the weird outdoor noises in the opening part – the wind in the trees, the rain pattering on leaves – added to a keening cello, genuinely made the hair on the back of my neck stand up. Later, there were banging pipes, the scratch of a record needle, the din of an old house creaking and shifting. Violins. Off-time dance music. A suddenly slammed door…
The programme concerned female authors of ghost stories, and there were some insightful quotes. Jessica Amanda Salmonson, an American academic, said that in the 19th century, at the height of the ghost story’s popularity, around 70% of the spooky tales in US and British magazines were written by women under male pseudonyms. She spoke of why women were attracted to the genre. “They didn’t have the right to vote, they couldn’t own property or have custody of their own children,” she said; essentially, women were ghosts in their own worlds. Later, writer Daisy Johnson said: “As a woman, you’re taught continually to be a little bit afraid. You’re always making sure you protect yourself, you don’t open yourself up to danger. You’re always thinking, who’s that person over there?… all those small moments of unease and uncomfortableness. The everyday can be very frightening.”
Mariana Enríquez, an Argentinian writer, pointed out that for her, a ghost story “is a story about trauma. Ghosts tell you what happened… those things that society doesn’t want to see. My ghosts are angry because they’ve been ignored. So most of the time they are women, because women were silenced, their stories were not believed…” Women haunt and are haunted. Listen on headphones in the dark.
There were more spooky stories, via the Wellcome Collection in London. (Henry Wellcome, traveller and collector, amassed thousands of objects, mostly in his areas of interest, medicine and health.) For Homeless Bodies and Other Stories, on Audible, six writers chose an object in the collection as inspiration for a short story and asked an expert about it. So Imogen Hermes Gowar, who chose a chastity belt, wondered if the belt was not only about men trying to control women, but about women wanting to keep themselves safe. Interestingly, she was told that chastity belts were rarely used until the Renaissance, and even then, often only as satire. So the widely held belief that in the Crusades, knights would lock their wives in chastity belts before going off to war was, flatly, wrong. Instead, the knights left their wives in charge of their estates, fighting off intruders. Chastity belts “are not serious”, said the expert. “They’re symbolic… Men try to control women’s sexuality, but they can’t. It’s just not a thing that actually works.”
The resulting stories, by authors such as Sarah Moss, Oyinkan Braithwaite and Haroun Khan, concerned such eerie things as a lockable iron mask for a rebellious woman, a phrenology skull and a segment of 18th-century tattooed skin. They were read by actors, with accompanying what-was-that? sounds layered beneath. Award-winning producer Hana Walker-Brown is another excellent audio-creator (she made The Beautiful Brain, a documentary on brain damage caused by sport), and she knows how to conjure up a creepy atmosphere. More fodder for a late-night solo listen, if you dare. Brrrrr.
The Case of Charles Dexter WardIf you’ve not listened to this 10-part modern take on HP Lovecraft’s horrifying tale, you’re in for a real treat. Adapted and directed by Julian Simpson, it tells the tale of The Mystery Machine, a podcast that investigates contemporary murder mysteries and what happens when the show’s two reporters start looking into the strange disappearance of a young man from a locked room in an asylum. Genuinely terrifying, brilliantly done.
Radio RentalLaunched on Halloween itself, this latest from US true-crime specialist podcaster Tenderfoot TV is like a real-life version of The Mystery Machine. Payne Lindsey is our Radio Rental host, interviewing survivors of real-life scary situations, from meeting the dead to nearly meeting killers to inexplicable spookiness. It’s a semi-scripted podcast, so there’s storytelling involved, but the USP is: this actually happened. Tenderfoot brought us To Live and Die in LA and Culpable, so expect all the gory details.
Parcast Presents… HalloweenAnother US true crime specialist, Parcast (from Spotify) boasts an array of existing spooky fare, and this week, 10 of its shows have special Halloween programmes. Haunted Places Present Urban Legends looks at that most horrible of internet sensations, Slenderman; Halloween checks out the Salem witch trials. These are round-the-campfire scary tales, with minimal soundscaping and sometimes hilariously OTT narration. The host of Haunted Places, in particular, seems to think he’s in the cast of Carry On Screaming!.
