
# Gifts already arriving for Stirling Observer Give A Gift Appeal 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:11:47+00:00**

Author: **Kaiya Marjoribanks, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/kaiya-marjoribanks/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/gifts-already-arriving-stirling-observer-20826104)


        People right across the Stirling area are joining in the effort to give sick, disabled, needy and disadvantaged children and young people a better Christmas through the Stirling Observer’s 11th annual Give A Gift Appeal.
      
Among the charities and good causes which help to distribute the gifts donated every year are Stirling Young Carers; Home-Start Stirling which supports families with young children going through difficult times; Stirling Women’s Aid; Stirling Council social services; PLUS, the local organisation which provides social opportunities for children and young people with disabilities; Stirling Interfaith Community Justice Group, which helps families and children at the Family Help Hubs at Cornton Vale and Glenochil; Support4Families, which supports those affected by a relative’s substance abuse including kinship carers; Barnardo’s; KiDS group for children with Down’s Syndrome; and Forth Valley Royal Hospital children’s ward.
Observer reporter Kaiya Marjoribanks said: “Gifts have already started to come in which is great to see. Every year we have received more and more gifts, however we have also seen demand for these increase and the charities and good causes have come to depend on them, so the way our readers and the entire community rally round is exceptionally heartening.
“We aim to give the children only new toys, as for some it will be the only brand new item they receive, and the gifts go to an age range from babies right up to teenagers. We always welcome a variety of gifts, particularly as representatives of the charities come on an arranged day in mid-December to collect them. They often have particular children in mind to choose for so ideally they should be unwrapped.
“If handing in cuddly toys these should ideally be either boxed or still have labels as for health and safety reasons these can otherwise be difficult for the charities to distribute.
“The variety of gifts we receive is always overwhelming. In the past we’ve had everything from doll houses, scooters, action figures, games, arts and crafts, books, and even bikes. Lego is always popular, as are the usual traditional toys such as dolls and cars, but all the children are individuals so any items are welcomed.”
Collected at our offices in Upper Craigs and with the support of a host of drop-off points across the area, the gifts aim to ensure no local child goes without on Christmas morning and that those children and their families going through difficult times know their community has them in their thoughts.
The appeal also exists to ease the pressure many of the charities face over the festive season and allow them to put resources they may otherwise have had to use for gifts into their other areas of good work.
Drop-off points can be found at:
STIRLING: Stirling Observer, 34 Upper Craigs (Mon-Fri 9am-5pm, please ring bell or knock); Morrisons supermarket, Springkerse Retail Park; Nationwide Building Society, Port Street; Codebase Stirling, 8-10 Corn Exchange Road; Jintz Express, 1, 5 Munro Rd, Stirling FK7 7SY; United Auctions, Stirling Agricultural Centre, off the A84, FK9 4RN; ABERFOYLE: Station Coffee Shop, Main Street; BALFRON: Balfron Library; Balfron Primary School; BANNOCKBURN: Jintz Express/Post Office, 17 Quakerfield; CALLANDER: Callander Primary School; DUNBLANE: Beech Tree Cafe, 2 Beech Road; Dunblane Centre, Stirling Road. Drop-off points will also be established in the Thistles shopping centre in the coming days, details to follow.
Any businesses, schools or organisations are also welcome to offer their premises as a drop-off point or to hold their own in-house collections.
For queries please call 01786 459417 or email kaiya.marjoribanks@reachplc.com or news@stirlingobserver.co.uk.
Your support will be much appreciated and we will aim to photograph and feature as many collections as possible in the Observer in the run up to Christmas.

        
          Click here for more news and sport from the Stirling area.
        
      
