
# 2 of 4 grinning men who led teen into Bangkok condo freed on bail

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:45:56+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bangkok**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bangkok/news/2-of-4-grinning-men-who-led-teen-into-bangkok-condo-freed-on-bail/)

Two of four men seen in chilling security camera footage carrying an nearly unconscious 18-year-old woman into her Bangkok condominium where they are suspected of raping her have been freed on bail.
Soon after the first arrest was made, the other three suspects were detained Friday, with two of released the next day. All four have been charged with sexual assault and burglary but maintain their innocence – saying they were indeed in the room but did not rape the young woman.

        Police hunt 4 grinning men seen carrying unconscious woman into Bangkok condo (Video)
      
“We still need to interrogate more witnesses and collect more evidence, but the four have already been detained,” Col. Torkiat Prombutr chief of Din Daeng police told Coconuts Bangkok this afternoon.
“We are currently waiting for results from the health examination of the accuser,” he added, which could take up to two months. The forensic examination is necessary to determine what exactly happened to the victim on the night in question, said the official.
“We’ve asked them to expedite the examination but things have protocols and usually the examination takes about a month or two,” he said.
The four detained were Thitiwuit Jantakhun, 20, Sahachai Klinrod, 19, Chanasak Srisook, 19, and Pichai Boonthong, 20. On Saturday, the four were transferred to Ratchadaphisek Criminal Court to be jailed. As of publication time, Sahachai and Chanasak had been released on bail for THB350,000 (US$12,000) each, according to reports. The rest remains in custody. 
When Torkiat was asked to firm their release, he dismissed the question but said the “media reports are probably correct.” 
After Din Daeng police finished initial questioning the four late Friday night, they found out that two of the men are students are a vocational school, while the two recently graduated from it.
Family members of the woman reportedly came to the police station during questioning to scream insults and tried to physically harm the gang. The families of the accused, meanwhile, started getting riled up too, forcing police to separate the two sides to avoid further conflict. 
Meanwhile, the brother of the accuser said he mains extremely angry that the four men have not apologized for what they did. He believes his sister was digitally and orally assaulted as well as raped. He vows to continue pursuing this case until its rightful conclusion. 
He added that his sister is only 18 and very innocent in her family’s eyes. She never had a boyfriend before and just started university, he said. 
The incident occurred early Wednesday morning and soon flooded the net with CCTV footage hauntingly familiar to another recent, high-profile case of a woman drugged and abused. 

        In final hours, Bangkok model left trail of clues (Interactive Timeline)
      
The girlfriend of the woman’s brother told police that the woman was drinking with friends at a bar on the night in question before getting on the phone with one of the men that appears in the CCTV footage.
She told police that the men picked her up to go drink at another bar near Victory Monument. Just before 3am – as indicated by the footage – the men took the accuser to an apartment in Din Daeng. 
Disturbing footage from her condo shows two men supporting the woman into the apartment as two more trail behind. All appear to be grinning. The woman, barely conscious, hangs her head low and needed help walking.
