
# Plymouth ladies transformed by fashion guru Gok Wan

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/whats-on-news/plymouth-ladies-transformed-fashion-guru-3472983)

Gok Wan has been spreading his love of fashion and inspiring women over all around the country for over 20 years, so you can imagine the excitement when it was announced he'd be bringing his One Size Fits All Tour to Plymouth.
Plymouth Live were lucky enough to go along to experience the masterclass, aiming to make the women of Plymouth to feel happier in their own skin through catwalk shows, trend analysis and hair demonstrations.
Not one, but two lucky local ladies were given the opportunity to experience the makeover of a lifetime as Gok and his team got to work behind the scenes as part of the interactive show.
Gok is no stranger to the city, having starred in the pantomime Cinderella in 2015, and, as the final date on the tour, it was safe to say it went out with a bang.
The award-winning fashion stylist, TV host, author and champion of empowering women, asked the audience to nominate someone to receive a glamorous makeover, with the crowd voting on who they think deserved it the most.
Usually choosing just one lady, Gok decided on this occasion to give both Bella Graham, 20, and Veronica Stidwell, 61, the chance to regain some confidence in the way they look.
Both ladies then had their makeup and hair done, before being styled and receiving a brand new outfit from the team.
Bella was nominated by her mum Erica, who told the audience that she had just restarted her first year at university after realising her course wasn't for her, all while battling anxiety and depression.
"I think it takes a lot to admit when things are going wrong, and allow yourself to put them right, so that's why I nominate Bella," Erica said.
Bella was shocked by the nomination and admits that she thought her mum was joking.
"I saw her hand go up the first time, and I thought she was messing around, but then I saw it go up again and I thought oh, we're really doing this," Bella said.
"I've grown up watching Gok from a young age, and got tickets to the show as a birthday present from my mum, so to have this happen to me is a dream come true.
"I'm actually a student at Plymouth University at the moment, although originally from Gloucestershire. I completed my first year of university last year studying Psychology, but by the end of the year I just didn't think it was for me.
"It was definitely a leap of faith, to throw away the past year and start again, but it was definitely the right choice.
"I can't believe my mum nominated me for this, it's just amazing and I can't wait to see the results."
Meanwhile, Veronica, also known as Ron, was nominated by her sister, who wanted to nominate her for her bravery.
"I'm in total shock that my sister nominated me," Veronica told Plymouth Live.
"I've attended today with both of my sisters, there's three of us in total. I cared for my mum before she sadly passed away a few years ago, and I look after my husband because he is classed as disabled.
"I've also had my own health problems over the last few years too, but I just keep on going.
"It was lovely to be nominated. I don't normally bawl my eyes out but I did actually cry. I'm really looking forward to it and I'm amazed that people chose me."
At the end of the day, Bella and Veronica revealed their new looks to the audience on stage and were overwhelmed at the results.
"I've had such a great day and learnt so much," Bella said.
"I don't normally have the confidence to wear dresses but I love it."
Veronica said: "It's absolutely amazing, I've loved every minute of it."
Local hairdressers from Toni and Guy, makeup artists and fashion businesses were also present throughout the day, showcasing their talents and providing mini makeovers to ladies in the audience.
Plymouth College of Art students acted as runners for the fashion shows, and Amica Bridal Boutique, which is based in Marsh Mills, were also chosen by Gok to showcase their bridal gowns during the show.
Gok told Plymouth Live: "I was in panto in Plymouth for a long time so I know the crowd. Plymouth is a vibrant coastal town full of great food and drink, and great people, so it was fantastic to be back. The people of Plymouth want to be loved like everywhere else.
"Having a relationship with your body is the most important thing you can do, If you don't love your body you can't love yourself either. Body confidence is not about waking up and loving every part of you. It's about waking up and not hating any part of you."
