
# 1st T20I: Why India couldn't pull things back against Bangladesh

Published at: **2019-11-05T03:48:23+00:00**

Author: **Partha Bhaduri**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/1st-t20i-why-india-couldnt-pull-things-back-against-bangladesh/articleshow/71916294.cms?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=TOIDesktop)

NEW DELHI: Krunal Pandya's dropped catch may have been the costliest, but a couple of other crucial missteps by India at the Kotla assured Bangladesh of their first T20I victory over the hosts on Sunday. If anything, the defeat showed India still have some catching up to do with the likes of Pakistan, England and Australia.
T20 may be a game of cold calculations, skilled war-room strategizing and incessant data crunching, but there is also a danger in over-thinking. On Sunday night, India's meticulous planning came to nought against a more dynamic Bangladesh, who played with more heart. India have adopted a horses-for-courses policy in a bid to shape up their best XI for next year's T20 World Cup in Australia, but as things stand, there are many horses and less courses. Time is running out fast to figure out which are the best-suited ones.
In the absence of Jasprit Bumrah and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, the death bowling looks less lethal. And the top order may not be as set in stone as India like to think. With the decline of Dhoni and the injury-related absence of Hardik Pandya, the lower middle order still awaits the long sixes. TOI looks at errors which probably cost the favourites the game…

        Not raising the bar
      
Both captain Rohit Sharma and Mushfiqur Rahim thought India had set a defendable total. So did the experts on TV. "We had decided that if we bat first, we will go for 140-150. 148 was a good score. It was a defendable score and we made mistakes on the field. The guys are a bit inexperienced. They can learn from that, and not make them the next time," said Rohit.
The captain might have thought 148 would be a "defendable score", only not with the attack at his disposal, and not without a sensible sixth bowling option. The average first-innings total at this venue in the IPL is a slightly higher 156. Do India need to recalibrate the targets?

        Get the damn DRS right!
      
How Rishabh Pant will be hoping for a quiet game in which he doesn't blunder his way to some trouble! He got a rare, sardonic smile from his skipper after asking for the DRS when Soumya Sarkar hadn't nicked the ball, and also failing to insist on one after Mushfiqur missed a Chahal slider to be trapped in front. In the end, the decision proved as crucial as Krunal Pandya's dropped catch.
Pant, in general, had an off day, also missing a direct throw at a crucial stage.
"The reviews were a mistake from our side. The first ball he played on the backfoot, we thought it was going down leg. The next one on the front foot, we forgot how short he is! We weren't up to the mark on the field," said Rohit, but he was understanding of Rishabh's misreading of the DRS. "Rishabh is young and he will need time to understand. Plus, (it's) the bowlers as well. It's a combination when the captain is not in the right position to make the (DRS) decision."

        Over-thinking the right-left angle
      
There was a simple reason for the Khaleel misadventure. The left-arm pacer was given three of the last six overs because Rohit wanted him to take the cutters away from the right-handers. Mushfiqur Rahim and the left-handed Soumya Sarkar took the game deep, and India's captain waited and waited for two right-handers to arrive at the crease.
The Bangladeshis, as it turned out, were waiting for the seamers too. Mushfiqur would say later, "Only the batsman in the middle know what is going on in the pitch. Not anyone in the dugout, not the next batsman. I told Soumya that if one of us bats till the 19th over, we can still chase 25 because they will bowl seamers."
Mushfiqur hit Khaleel for four boundaries in the penultimate over to kill the match. Of course, Mushfiqur rode his luck, with Krunal, who had a horrible day, dropping him in the previous over.
As it turned out, Khaleel was left licking his wounds.

        Lagging in the Powerplay
      
"They put us under pressure right from the start when we were batting," said Rohit, and he hit the nail on the head. The captain's very early dismissal ensured India scored only 35/1 in the Powerplay. Bangladesh managed 45/1, including 25 off the last two as Naim contributed a few crucial blows.
The spinners who strangled India, Aminul Islam and Afif Hossain, were not even on at that stage. Do India need an opener with a higher strike rate than Shikhar Dhawan's 109.35 in 2019 (compared to a career SR of 128.67)? His strike ate was 97.61 in Sunday's game, clearly not enough of an impetus at the top.

        More faith in the leggies, please!
      
In the end, it was Chahal's experience with the ball in the middle overs which took the game deep, and he could have been the match-turner at the death too if Krunal had held on to the skier from Mishfiqur at deep mid-wicket in the 18th over, which eventually yielded 13.
The leg-spin option had been given a temporary boot in regular skipper Virat Kohli's plans to add more batting bite to the tail, just the sort of sting we saw on Sunday as Washington Sundar and Pandya gave a late thrust to the innings, scoring 14 and 16 runs respectively off the 19th and 20th overs. But on the bowling front, it was a different story as Pandya floundered.
