
# Stacey Solomon and her sons go all out in matching outfits for last night in Maldives

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:18:09+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/stacey-solomon-sons-go-out-20801496)

Stacey Solomon was determined that the last night of her luxurious Maldives family holiday would be celebrated in style.
The Loose women star - and very proud mum - dressed herself, her three sons and boyfriend Joe Swash in matching blue outfits for their final evening in paradise.
Stacey, 30, shared a snap of the five of them posing in their finery in front of a stunning beach backdrop as they headed off to dinner.
The former I'm A Celebrity winner donned a deep blue mini-dress that perfectly co-ordinated with the shade of boyfriend Joe's shirt and shorts.
While sons Zacheray and Leighton looked ultra smart at the beach destination in their matching suits.
Little baby Rex even got in on the action in a waistcoat, trousers and adorable blue bow tie.
Stacey then told her Instagram followers how they'd spent their last night watching the sunset, playing on the beach, eating some of the five star cuisine and dancing to their favourite songs.
"Boys I love you more than you could ever know," she told them via social media.
The reality star also let fans know she would be turning her phone off for a few hours as she was determined to enjoy some quality family time.
Stacey regularly keeps fans updated on details of her life and has been documenting her latest trip away on her Insta page.
"Turning my phone off for a few hours," she told her following as she headed out with her family.
Hours later when the sunset was over, Stacey returned to Instagram to share the last few snaps before she headed home.
The next morning, she was back to reveal how she and son Leighton went snorkelling in the crystal clear waters while the others were fast asleep.
Stacey landed in the Maldives with her three sons last week - leaving Joe Swash at home.
After much pining from Stacey, Joe finally joined them in the idyllic island of Raa Atoll after days apart.
