
# Mexico: up to nine members of US Mormon family killed in ambush

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:08:36+00:00**

Author: **Jo Tuckman**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2019/nov/05/five-members-of-family-including-children-die-in-mexico-gun-attack)

LeBarón family relatives say nine victims, mainly children, dead in attack on dirt road between Chihuahua and Sonora states
Cartel gunmen in northern Mexico have killed at least six children and three women in an ambush that left six other children wounded and prompted Donald Trump to call for a “war” against the country’s drug cartels.
Victims and survivors of the attack near the border between the states of Sonora and Chihuahua all belong to a well-known Mormon family that is based in Mexico but has dual US/Mexican citizenship and deep roots on both sides of the frontier.
The massacre prompted three tweets from Trump urging Mexico’s president, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, to “wage WAR on the drug cartels and wipe them off the face of the earth” – and offering US help to do this.
Monday’s merciless slaughter of children and their mothers is the latest in a recent string of violent episodes which have piled pressure on López Obrador to modify his softly-softly approach to organized crime.
Initial accounts from local authorities and relatives of the victims differed on several key points, but it appears that the three women were travelling in three SUVs with their children when they were attacked on a remote and unpaved mountain road at around 1pm on Monday.
According to relatives, the three vehicles were travelling from the community of La Mora, Sonora toward Pancho Villa, in Chihuahua. They set out together, but one of them later fell behind because of a flat tire.
That car was the first to be found shot up and burnt out with the bodies of one woman – later identified as Rhonita LeBarón – her twin babies and two other small children dead inside.
The other two vehicles, driven by Dawna and Christina Langford, were found about 18km (11 miles) further along the road at the top of a hill.
According to a statement released by the Sonora attorney general’s office, a woman and two children were found dead in one of the cars. The third woman was found dead a few meters from the third vehicle.
Julián LeBarón, a relative of the victims, said that he reached the scene with the security forces hours later, and opened the door of one of the vehicles to find a baby still inside completely unharmed.
In an interview with Aristegui Noticias, he said it appeared most of the rest of the surviving children had walked 15km (9.3 miles) back to La Mora where they alerted the authorities.
He said one of the children said their mother had been gunned down after she got out of the car screaming at the attackers to stop shooting.
“We are very upset,” he said. “It is just impossible to understand why they would attack cars full of women and children in two separate incidents.”
Another relative, Kendra Miller, said in a Facebook post that the first news of the massacre arrived in La Mora when a 13-year-old survivor got there hours later.
“After witnessing his mother and brothers being shot dead, Dawna’s son Devin hid his six other siblings in the bushes and covered them with branches to keep them safe while he went for help,” she wrote. “When he took too long to return, his nine-year-old sister left the remaining five to try again.”
Miller wrote that Devin’s news prompted an armed search party from the community that was soon aborted because of continual shooting in the area. She said the hidden children were not found until 7.30pm, more than six hours after the ambush. The nine-year-old was found lost in the mountains later.
Both the Mexican authorities and relatives said that they believed that cartel gunmen had mistaken the convoy of vehicles for rivals from another group.
“It looks like the criminal groups disputing control of the region might have got the vehicles confused,” said Alfonso Durazo, the public security secretary.
Durazo was speaking during the daily press conference held by López Obrador that was dominated by the massacre – and coincided with Trump’s flurry of tweets.
The US president described López Obrador as the “great new President of Mexico” and called on him to accept US help eliminating the cartels.
“The United States stands ready, willing & able to get involved and do the job quickly and effectively,” he tweeted. “The cartels have become so large and powerful that you sometimes need an army to defeat an army.”
After profusely thanking the US president for his offers of help, López Obrador said he wasn’t interested.
“The worst thing you can have is war,” he said. “That is not an option.”
López Obrador has turned away from the militarized anti-narcotics tactics of his predecessors which failed to stop organized crime and led to widespread human rights abuses.
The president, widely known as Amlo, vowed to “pacify” the country by waging war on the social roots of crime, but his strategy has so far failed to rein in the violence, and in the first nine months of this year, Mexico suffered an average of close to 100 murders a day.
