
# ‘Stupid’ – Star Missing For Chiefs Semi

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-will-face-a-maritzburg-united-without-kwanda-mngonyama/666937)

There’s still another game to go before Kaizer Chiefs host Maritzburg United in their Telkom Knockout semifinal, but one key player has already been ruled out.

        Read: Why Chiefs Coach Has Left For Japan…
      
Kwanda Mngonyama has been a crucial player for the Team of Choice this season as they put together an impressive run of form lately, however he was given two yellow cards and a red in the 0-0 draw with Orlando Pirates, meaning that he’s now suspended for the next two matches.
Mngonyama will first sit out Friday night’s Absa Premiership game against Bloemfontein Celtic as his side look to extend their unbeaten run even further, but – more worryingly for Eric Tinkler – will then miss their semi at the end of the month.
Tinkler was visibly annoyed with the sending off against Pirates, and presumably not just for the consequences, telling SuperSport, “We got a stupid second yellow and then we looked like we were playing… So for me, disappointing performance overall, really disappointing. Silly sending off to be honest, you have to take advantage of the extra man, you have cover because they are a man down, there's no need for a foul, I can understand if you're the last man but you're not. So it's a silly challenge from him to be sent off.”

        Read: Five Chiefs Internationals Set To Leave
      
Chiefs, meanwhile, have Willard Katsande and Daniel Akpeyi sitting on three yellow cards each at present, putting them at risk for the semi if either of them are booked in this weekend’s Soweto Derby against the Buccaneers.

        Who do you think should replace Mngonyama for Maritzburg? 
      

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
        
      
