
# RBI raises withdrawal limit for PMC Bank depositors to Rs 50,000

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:10:16+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/rbi-raises-withdrawal-limit-for-pmc-bank-depositors-to-rs-50000/articleshow/71924136.cms)

NEW DELHI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday further raised the withdrawal limit for customers of the crisis-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank to Rs 50,000 from Rs 40,000 per accountholder.
"The Reserve Bank of India, after reviewing the bank’s liquidity position and its ability to pay its depositors has decided to further enhance the limit for withdrawal to ₹ 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand only), inclusive of ₹ 40,000 allowed earlier," RBI said in a statement.
This is the fourth time the regulator has increased the withdrawal limit since it clamped down on PMC Bank on September 23, capping withdrawals at Rs 1,000 per customer, which led to a lot of distress and criticism. Last month the limit was enhanced to Rs 40,000 per account.
With this relaxation, more than 78 per cent of the depositors of the bank will be able to withdraw their entire account balance, the central bank added.
In addition, to ease the process of withdrawals, the RBI has also allowed the depositors to withdraw from the bank’s own ATMs within the prescribed limit of Rs 50,000.
The Reserve Bank further said it was closely monitoring the position and will continue to take further steps as are necessary to safeguard the interest of the depositors of the bank.
On September 23, the RBI had put out regulatory restriction on the urban cooperative bank after it found out financial irregularities, including hiding and misreporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL.
The restrictions included barring the bank from lending and accepting fresh deposits.
It also superseded the board and the management of the bank and appointed an ex-RBI official as the administrator at the bank.
Since the crisis, the law enforcement has arrested five people including the chairman and MD of the bank as well as the father-son duo of HDIL, which owes more than 6,500 crore to the bank.

        (With PTI inputs)
      
