
# Is this beginning of a beautiful friendship?

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Rajashekara S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/is-this-beginning-of-a-beautiful-friendship/articleshow/71859258.cms)

HD Kumaraswamy and Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa met at a wedding and exchanged pleasantries. What’s brewing? A renewed bonhomie appears to be brewing between `friends-turned-rivals,’ Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. On Friday, both leaders met briefly, for just a few seconds at the wedding of a businessman’s son at the Taj Westend. It was Yediyurappa who walked to Kumaraswamy to shake hands with him even as two bemused former chief ministers, SM Krishna and DV Sadananda Gowda were left looking at the two sworn political enemies exchanging pleasantries. Both had fallen out in 2007 after Kumaraswamy refused to hand over the baton of power to Yediyurappa. In fact, both had a showdown twice since the Assembly polls in 2018 defeating one another on the Assembly floor. But this new friendship does not seem to be a sudden and off-the-cuff development. Both leaders have been warming up to each other for a while now to take on a new enemy, Leader of the Opposition (LoP) Siddaramaiah. On October 28, Kumaraswamy asserted that he wouldn’t let the BJP government fall ``in the interest of the distressed people in the flood affected regions.’’ According to him, mid-term polls will fully ignore the plight of thousands of displaced families. On Deepavali day, Yediyurappa reciprocated by ringing up Kumaraswamy in the guise of wishing him for the festival. During the telephonic talks, facilitated by a BJP MLC who had prepared the ground, the two leaders also spoke about the political scenario. Yediyurappa thanked Kumaraswamy for coming to the government’s rescue while Kumaraswamy reassured him not to worry. Not so long ago, the Congress leader was accused of joining hands with Yediyurappa to oust the coalition government led by Kumaraswamy. In fact rumour mills were abuzz in political circles that the Lingayat and Kuruba leaders were even considering floating a regional outfit if their respective parties failed to fulfil their demands. But once Yediyurappa became the Chief Minister and Siddaramaiah was appointed LoP, their friendship turned bitter too. The saying “no permanent friends or enemies, only interests,’’ remains as relevant as ever in politics too. With the byelections for the 15 Assembly seats are round the corner (on December 5), the future of Yediyurappa depends on the results. If the BJP fails to win at least nine seats, the government will lose majority. On the other hand, the JD(S) is facing a rebellion within as several legislators (MLAs and MLCs) are willing to quit and join rival parties. The mood among a majority of MLAs in the party is to join hands with the BJP and to ensure it completes a full term. Joining hands with the BJP will not only ensure that Kumaraswamy can keep his flock together but also win him a few brownie points among the electorate in flood-hit north Karnataka. This move is also strategic as it will bring the JD(S) closer to the BJP central leaders. Any decision on extending support to the BJP government, if required, after the byelections will be taken positively, said a senior leader who was aware of the talks between the Chief Minister and his predecessor.
