
# We Can Help Men Live Longer

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:00:09+00:00**

Author: **Louise Aronson**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/opinion/men-health-crisis-.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

All over the country, men are dying. Every kind of man: rich and poor, blue collar and white collar, men of all races, religions and ethnicities. In addition to sex, these dying Americans share another trait: They are no longer young. How can it be that men by the millions are dying while their female counterparts are not — and no one seems to notice or care?
Overall in the United States, males make up 49 percent of the population. But over age 65, the population is 57 percent female — and starting at that age survival differences by sex become more marked. There are only about half as many males as females among people over age 80, and 81 percent of American centenarians are women. According to the United Nations, women outlive men in all but a few of the over 200 nations and territories it monitors.
These differences in aging between sexes raise some interesting questions: Why and from what are older men dying? Does biology favor females for survival, and if so, how and why? Are we doing something socially, culturally or medically that’s killing men? Or are we not doing something that might help?
Although much of the science of sex differences in aging is relatively recent, the longevity disadvantage of males in older age subgroups isn’t new. Human biology appears to favor female survival. This is not consistently true in other species, leading scientists to hypothesize that the advantage may be uniquely human. At the same time, shorter male lives have not been the reality in all places or eras, so biological sex isn’t the sole determinant of life span: Culture interacts with biology.
Among the many medical advances since the mid-1800s, reductions in maternal mortality and fertility are often cited as key reasons for the widening gender-longevity gap. But those are not major contributors. A more significant factor was the sharp decrease in infectious disease in the first decades of the 20th century. Survivors of infectious diseases are often more vulnerable later in life to diseases including heart conditions and certain cancers, as well as to declines in general well-being. Infectious diseases disproportionally affected girls and young women for both sociocultural and biological reasons.
Curiously, though males appear to be less biologically resistant to mortality than females, men generally have better health and higher functional status as they age, a phenomenon known as the morbidity-mortality paradox. In elderhood, women experience more chronic illness, disability, Alzheimer’s disease and institutionalization, and they require more medical care than men.
Sex differences in hormones, immunity and genes offer possible explanations for why relatively healthy males die while their less healthy female counterparts survive. Testosterone is not only associated with risk-taking and violence, but it also appears to introduce physiological harms, since castrated males live a decade or two longer than intact ones. By contrast, estrogen facilitates the elimination of cholesterol, lowering chances of heart disease, the No. 1 killer in higher income countries. Perhaps more important, estrogen has both anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative properties not present in testosterone that improve immune function and response to biological stress.
Males are further disadvantaged by genetic inheritance differences between the sexes. Because girls and women have two X chromosomes, they can more easily compensate for harmful mutations, while males express the X-linked or, less commonly, Y-linked defect and suffer its consequences.
Still, when I mention what I call the “men’s health crisis” in public talks, people always call out the same cultural and behavioral explanations: male stoicism, higher rates of smoking, stress from protecting and providing for their families, resistance to seeking care and following medical recommendations, risk-taking that results in trauma.
Rarely does anyone ask whether the reasons for poor male survival are the same as the ones for female longevity.
Socioeconomic status, occupations and behaviors all have health consequences, as does the culture of medicine. Over the first century of modern medicine, doctors and researchers didn’t pay much attention to either old people or the aging (or women, people of color and people with disabilities).
The importance of culture and policies to health have been recognized by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which also estimates that four modifiable risk factors are principal contributors to chronic disease, associated disability and premature death. For longevity, social policies and cultural practices determine access to helpful resources like healthy food.
Fortunately, biology and culture point to better ways forward for both sexes (and so, all genders). Scientists need to examine harms and benefits of both male and female genetics, hormones and other factors that influence aging beginning in utero, as this may have lifelong implications for health and longevity. Since the vast majority of men will be uninterested in parting with either their Y chromosome or their testosterone, we need to explore biological, social and behavioral strategies that will minimize their many risk factors for early death. We need to devote far more attention and resources to preventing and delaying chronic diseases and functional decline.
The same changes to our health care system that will help men live longer will help all Americans. The United States is ranked 37th in health outcomes by the World Health Organization. The many countries with healthier populations prioritize three health sectors we devalue: primary care, prevention and social care. By contrast, our health systems profit only if Americans get sick. The money flows toward medical care, not health care.
Among the consequences of this approach are prematurely dying older men and unnecessarily suffering older women.
A medical system focused on health would offer aging men (indeed, all of us) incentives for the evidence-based treatments that outperform the drugs and other disease-focused treatments that are the bedrocks of our system. They include exercise, stress-management, nutrition (the Mediterranean diet outperforms statins in preventive heart health), dentistry and patient care appointments and systems long enough to support behavior change.
If this doesn’t sound like medical care to you, then you are a well-acculturated American. Our health system has led us to believe that medical care and health care are interchangeable terms. They are not. In the United States, we have a medical system but we lack a system that cares for our health.
For example, if an older man falls, whether from weakened muscles our system has led him to believe are the inevitable result of aging (muscles can be strengthened at all ages) or from heart disease (much of which is preventable), our medical system will pay to transport him by ambulance to an emergency department, where he will receive labs and scans. It will pay for his hospital admission, surgery and specialists or intensive care. It will pay for his rehabilitation (although he is likely to receive care that will push him toward “good enough” for age, rather than good). The cost for this care will be in the tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars.
A health care system would do things differently. In adulthood, his primary care internist would assess his health risks based on activity, diet, diseases, weight, stressors, substance use, genetics, risky occupation or behaviors and age. In elderhood, his primary care geriatrician would continue those assessments and add to them the best predictors of health and care needs: grip strength, walking speed, hearing, attitude about aging, sense of purpose and social engagement. The prescriptions he received over those decades would look nothing like the prescriptions of today, and available evidence suggests he would be healthier and our health care costs would decrease.
In the meantime, aging and old men (and women) should do for themselves what our health system will not: get regular exercise, some aerobic and some that builds muscle and improves balance; eat more fruits, vegetables, whole grains and fish and less packaged foods; get a hearing aid at the first sign of hearing loss to preserve brain function and social life; remain engaged in ways that matter — don’t retire, or take up new work, paid or otherwise; nurture meaningful relationships; plan for your future elderhood, as that’s the only way to remain in control of it.
Life is different in old age, but with these basic steps toward better health and well-being, research has shown that elderhood can be not just as meaningful and enjoyable as earlier adulthood, but even better.
Louise Aronson, a professor of geriatrics at the University of California, San Francisco, is the author of “Elderhood.”

        The Times is committed to publishing 
        
          a diversity of letters
        
         to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some 
        
          tips
        
        . And here’s our email: 
        
          letters@nytimes.com
        
        .
      

        Follow The New York Times Opinion section on 
        
          Facebook
        
        , 
        
          Twitter (@NYTopinion)
        
         and 
        
          Instagram
        
        .
      

        Continue reading the main story
      
