
# Nestlé recalls ready-to-bake refrigerated cookie dough due to possible rubber in products

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:52:49+00:00**

Author: **WFTS Staff**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/news/national/nestle-recalls-ready-to-bake-refrigerated-cookie-dough-due-to-possible-rubber-in-products)

ARLINGTON, Va. — Nestlé USA is voluntarily recalling ready-to-bake refrigerated Nestlé Toll House Cookie Dough products due to the potential that food grade rubber pieces are in the products.
The recall only covers specific batches of cookie dough bars, tubs and tube-shaped "chubs" sold in the continental U.S. and Puerto Rico, according to a news release from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
The recall is limited to the following ready-to-bake refrigerated products with batch codes that begin with 9189 through 9295.
Batch codes can be identified on the product packaging. Look for the four-digit batch code after the "use or freeze-by" date and before the number 5753.
Nestlé Toll House Morsels, Nestlé Toll House Ice Cream Sandwiches and Nestlé Toll House Edible Cookie Dough are not impacted by the recall, the FDA says.
No illnesses or injuries requiring medical treatment have been reported due to the products involved in the recall.
Nestlé USA is asking consumers who purchased the affected products to not prepare or consume them. Instead, you should discard the product.
If you have any questions regarding the recall, Nestlé USA asks you to call them at 800-681-1676 or email nestleproductinquiry@casupport.com.

        This story was originally published by Sean O'Reilly on WFTS.
      
