
# Rangers financial results reveal £11.3m loss as transfer failure hits hard

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-financial-results-reveal-113m-20790326)

Rangers have declared a loss of £11.3 million as their failure to cash in on the transfer market hit hard.
The Ibrox club revealed a 63 per cent increase in turnover on the back of Europa League football, up to £53.2 million from £32.6 million.
However, Rangers directors, including Dave King and Douglas Park, have now converted a staggering £35 million in soft loans into shares in the last 18 months.
They converted loans totalling £18.2 million to the year end in June and have since converted a further £17.2 million to underline their commitment.
The departure of director of football Mark Allen can now be viewed in a fresh light as Rangers paid the cost of failing to attract offers for their star players.
His successor Ross Wilson will be under pressure to improve that area of the club’s operations, but sources insist there will be no urgency to move players out in the January transfer window.
Rangers have invested £30 million in their squad over the last three years and now have value on the pitch in the shape of players such as Alfredo Morelos, Joe Aribo, Ryan Jack, Borna Barisic and Nikola Katic.
But their overall revenue from player sales is only around seven per cent of their turnover, a quarter of the figure it should be for a club of its size.
By comparison, arch rivals Celtic would have declared a loss of £15 million on turnover of £83 million in the last financial year.
 
However, they were boosted by £26 million in transfer income, including more than £17 million in player sales and almost £9 million in compensation from Leicester for Brendan Rodgers.
The Parkhead club are the model to follow, with Kieran Tierney the latest in their conveyor belt of money-spinning talent to be moved on after he was sold to Arsenal for £25 million.
If he continues his fine run of form it’s likely Morelos will be sold in the summer for a fee in excess of £20 million, which would effectively allow Rangers to turn a healthy profit next time around.
However, the key is finding players to develop and sell on because relying on wealthy benefactors for an unlimited period of time is unsustainable.
Chairman King was determined to put a positive spin on the results as he insisted the investment from directors is necessary at this stage to re-build the entire club.
He also praised the performance of Steven Gerrard, who has led the club to the lucrative group stage of the Europa League for the second year in a row.
King said: “The financial year under review was again a positive one. The highlight was the acceleration of the substantial investment that was previously identified as being necessary to improve the club’s standards - both on and off the pitch.
“Our club has the highest expectations within the economic sphere that we operate and this requires the appropriate strategy, resources and operational capability. For the first time in many years we have all three of these at every level within the club.
“The team must continue to evolve to meet the demands and expectations of our supporters and in Steven Gerrard we have someone who embodies everything our club is about. “He understands fully that Rangers is synonymous with winning and as a winner himself, he can draw from a deep reservoir of experience gained by performing at the very top of European football.
“It has been the board’s responsibility to provide financial support to the manager and that is what we have done.
“We have also invested significantly in the infrastructure at Ibrox Stadium and the training centre. Much of this work, although it is costly, goes unseen.
“There is a continual funding requirement to maintain our facilities if they are to remain among the very best in the world.
“As always, I want to thank this club’s wonderful support. They really are the best when fully behind the team in the proper manner.
“The manager and players often refer to the supporters as a powerful driving force for the team and it is essential that we retain this atmosphere and resist the efforts of a tiny minority to bring disrepute to the Club’s name through sectarian and other unacceptable behaviour.
“This is one of the aims of our ‘Everyone Anyone’ initiative, which has been positively and widely received - even by our country’s politicians.
“This project is one of the most ambitious we have undertaken and it will highlight just how diverse and open our support actually is – Rangers is a Club for all.
“Significantly increased funding was also provided to bring Rangers women’s team to a new level. This provides us with a framework to develop the team to become a significant force, not just in Scottish football but also at European level.
The Rangers agm will be held in the Clyde Auditorium on Tuesday, November 26.
