
# Garth Crooks says Ole Gunnar Solskjaer bordering on carelessness over Marcus Rashford

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:22:48+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/garth-crooks-says-ole-gunnar-20807169)

BBC Sport pundit Garth Crooks says Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is running the risk of heaping too much pressure onto the young shoulders of Marcus Rashford.
The forward and his Manchester United teammates drew a blank at Bournemouth on Saturday, going down to a fourth Premier League defeat of the season from their 11 games thus far.
That record leaves them down in 10th in the table, having scored just 13 goals in the league so far this season.
Rashford is the club's top scorer with seven strikes in all competitions, but having just turned 22 last week, Crooks says that too much is being expected of the England forward.
"It would appear, however, that there seems an over-reliance developing by manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer on Marcus Rashford," wrote Crooks in his BBC Sport Team of the Week column , in which he picked Cherries defender Steve Cook and goalscorer Josh King after they got the better of Solskjaer's men.
"Solskjaer needs to be reminded that Rashford is only 22 and Manchester United one of the biggest clubs in the world.
"To ask such a young man to carry so much responsibility, often on his own, is bordering on carelessness."
Rashford has started all 11 of United's Premier League games so far this season, while also featuring in the club's three Europa League fixtures and the Carabao Cup win at Chelsea , in which he scored twice.
The Carabao Cup clash with League One Rochdale, which United won on penalties, is the only game this season which the forward hasn't been involved in.
Rashford has also featured four times for England this season, playing in the Euro 2020 qualifiers at home and away to Bulgaria as well as the games against Kosovo and Czech Republic.
