
# 10 steps to a happier you

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Daily Mirror**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/you/10-steps-to-a-happier-you/articleshow/71943737.cms)

From working on your muscles and posture to cleaning your phone, here are some things you can do to feel better and fitter in a matter of minutesTime is precious, so make the most of every minute to become fitter and happier. And you don't even need to block out a huge amount of time to do it - all you need is a couple of minutes here and there. Here are easy ways to usefully improve your wellness while you’re making a cuppa or waiting for the microwave to ping 1 Work your musclesDr Luke Powles of Bupa Health Clinics says, “It takes about a minute for a kettle to boil, so spend 30 seconds performing calf raises (rising on to tippy-toes and back down) and the remaining 30 seconds doing a wall sit.” To do this, press your back flat against a wall and lower your body by bending your knees to an angle of 45 to 90 degrees. 2 Sing along to the radioUniversity of Manchester scientists found the sacculus, a tiny organ in the inner ear, connects to the hypothalamus, the part of the brain that registers pleasure. When you sing, the sacculus detects small vibrations that send signals to the hypothalamus, giving an instant happiness hit. 3 Spell words backwardsDoing this in your head f o rces your brain to think hard and use your working memory, says brain surgeon and neuroscientist Dr Rahul Jandial. Another way to boost working memory is to multiply two-digit numbers, such as 29 and 72, in your head. These are fundamental skills that get better with practice, he says. 4 Declutter your bagAnything weighing more than three pounds puts pressure on your back, so take a minute to get rid of all the old make-up, receipts and loose change that litter your bag. 5 Correct your posture“Stand up straight, grind your feet into the floor and gently pull your stomach muscles in to lengthen your spine,” says former national ballet dancer Natalie Garry. “Your head should be raised high, but moving freely, not tense, and your shoulders should be relaxed. “As you continue with your day, that core stability protects your back and improves your posture.” 6 Stand on one legYoga expert Kat Farrants says, “The instability improves balance. Progress to leg strengthening by taking the lifted leg out to the side and performing small pulses up and down to strengthen weak hips and glutes (buttock muscles). Then repeat on the other side.” 7 Practise gratitude...suggests Chloe Brotheridge, hypnotherapist, coach and author of Brave New Girl: Seven Steps To Confidence.“It could be that you’re grateful for your healthy body, that it’s a sunny day or for the porridge you’re about to eat for breakfast,” she says. “Practising gratitude helps us to retrain our brains to look for the good things in our lives, helping us to become more positive.” 8 Check your pulseAn irregular heart beat can be a sign of atrial fibrillation, which can increase the risk of stroke by up to six times, says GP and stroke prevention advocate Dr Yassir Javaid. See a GP, if you are concerned. 9 Hug your partner, parent or childA hug needs to last 7 seconds to make a difference to your mood. “The average hug lasts 2.1 seconds but needs to last seven seconds or longer to make a difference,” says Andy Cope, author of Happiness: Your Route Map To Inner Joy. 10 Clean your mobileResearch suggests the average phone has 25,000 germs per square inch — that’s more than is found on the soles of your shoes. Turn off your phone before cleaning it and use a designated screen cleaner and microfibre cloth. Antibacterial wipes and disinfectants are abrasive and can corrode the screen’s protective coating.
