
# BIDV issues bonds worth $216 million - VnExpress International

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:32:14+00:00**

Author: **VnExpress**

Original: [VnExpress International – Latest news, business, travel and analysis from Vietnam](https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/companies/bidv-issues-bonds-worth-216-million-4007144.html)

The bonds have two tenors. For seven-year maturity bonds, the floating coupon rate is the reference rate plus 1.3 percent, and for 10-year maturity bonds, reference rate plus 1.4 percent.
The reference rate refers to the average of the 12-month deposit rates for individuals at BIDV, Vietcombank. VietinBank and Agribank, the four biggest state-owned lenders in Vietnam by assets. The average rate at the four banks now stands at 6.92 percent. 
The bonds, which are non-convertible and non-collateral, are issued to increase the bank’s medium and long term capital.
Since the beginning of this year, excluding its latest issue, BIDV has raised VND3 trillion ($129.4 million) from bonds.
BIDV last week became the largest bank by charter capital in the country after selling a 15 percent stake to South Korea's KEB Hana Bank.
Its charter capital now is over VND40 trillion ($1.73 billion), surpassing those of Vietcombank and Vietinbank, who are close behind at over VND37 trillion ($1.6 billion) each.
In  January-August, Vietnamese banks issued over VND56 trillion ($2.42 billion) worth of bonds, accounting for half of the total bond issues, according to stock brokerage Saigon Securities Inc (SSI). 99.6 percent of bank bonds were bought, it added.
