
# Tesla will unveil its ‘Cybertruck’ electric pickup on November 21st

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Sean O&#39;Kane**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/6/20951616/tesla-cybertruck-electric-pickup-reveal)

Tesla will finally unveil its long-awaited electric pickup truck on November 21st, Elon Musk tweeted on Wednesday. The truck, which Musk has dubbed “Cybertruck,” is supposed to look like something straight out of Blade Runner, the CEO has said.
The truck will be unveiled at Tesla’s design studio in Los Angeles, California, which sits on the same lot as SpaceX’s headquarters. Musk originally planned to reveal the pickup truck earlier this year, but he announced in September that he was pushing the event back to November.
Musk has said the forthcoming pickup truck has a “heart-stopping” design, with better utility than a Ford F-150 and superior performance to a basic Porsche 911.
The idea of a Tesla pickup truck has been kicked around since 2013 when Musk mentioned his desire to take on the F-150s of the world onstage at an event. The billionaire entrepreneur has spent the last six years teasing the truck without offering too many concrete specifics. He’s said the truck will seat six, start at around $50,000, and offer 400 to 500 miles of range in the highest price variant. Musk has also suggested the top-end version will be powered by a dual-motor setup, with a ludicrous towing capacity of 300,000 pounds.
As for what the truck will look like, Musk hasn’t offered much beyond a bunch of references to its “cyberpunk” aesthetic, and he has only released one very dark and indiscernible teaser image (seen above). This has resulted in a constant flood of fan renders, many of which border on the ridiculous.
