
# Chris Pratt Had The Best Reaction To Father-In-Law Arnold Schwarzenegger In Terminator: Dark Fate

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:38:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2483687/chris-pratt-had-the-best-reaction-to-father-in-law-arnold-schwarzenegger-in-terminator-dark-fate)

Written By
I still can't believe the Terminator is Star-Lord's father-in-law. But it's true. When Marvel star Chris Pratt married Katherine Schwarzenegger he became Arnold Schwarzenegger's son-in-law.
Chris and new wife Katherine just went to see Dad's new movie, Terminator: Dark Fate. In this movie, Arnold Schwarzenegger plays an aging Terminator model now named Carl, which is just hilarious to imagine, and irresistible catnip to Chris Pratt.
Here's what Chris Pratt posted after he and Katherine went to see the new Terminator movie:
I dare him to! Arnold Schwarzenegger has a good sense of humor about most things, and he commented on his son-in-law's post:
I would be terrified to even joke around Arnold Schwarzenegger, but it sounds like Chris Pratt and his Terminator father-in-law get along just fine. Here's Pratt's post:
Katherine Schwarzenegger, age 29, is the one who grew up watching her father play the Terminator. In honor of Terminator 6, she shared some memories of her times on set with her Terminator dad:
Love those photos. In that first one, Baby Katherine doesn't look too scared by her seriously messed-up-looking dad. She must've gotten used to it fairly early.
Terminator: Dark Fate continues the story directly from The Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgment Day, ignoring the other films that came after. Dark Fate just opened in theaters and so far fans and critics seem to like it. It has a B+ CinemaScore from moviegoers polled on opening night, an 87% RT audience score from 376 users to date, and a score of 6.6/10 from 16,882 IMDb users to date.
Terminator: Dark Fate is expected to easily top the domestic box office this weekend, with an estimate somewhere around $40 million. (Or not, not anymore. #yikes.) Producer James Cameron has talked about a potential new trilogy -- he's all about multiple sequels these days -- but that will partly depend on how well Dark Fate does. There was once thought that Terminator Genisys would be the start of a new trilogy, too.
Have you seen Terminator: Dark Fate yet? What did you think of "Carl" and company? How would you grade it? Keep up with everything still headed to the big screen this year with our 2019 movie release date schedule.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
