
# PNP, PDEA confident of clearing over 18,000 barangays of drug by 2022

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:30:45+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/editorial/opinion/pnp-pdea-confident-clearing-over-18000-barangays-drug-2022)

On orders of PNP Officer-in-Charge, Lieutenant General Archie Francisco F. Gamboa, the PNP is further intensifying its war on drugs specifically targeting so-called ‘high-value targets’ including drug lords and their ilk as well as rogue public officials and law enforcement agents who are directly or indirectly involved in illegal drug trafficking and abuse, said PNP spokesman, Brigadier General Bernard M. Banac.
“We are working in partnership with local government unit, the PDEA and other agencies of the government in order to stop illegal drugs,” said the PNP spokesperson as he emphasized the major role being played by the police force in transforming drug-infested barangays to  ‘drug-cleared’ areas.
The Department of Interior and Local Government has tasked the PNP and LGUs to see to it that they will arrest the presence of illegal drugs in all barangays thru the so-called ‘whole-of-government-approach.’
A barangay can be declared “drug-cleared” or free from illegal drug activities if it meets these six requirements: Non-availability of drug supply; Absence of drug den, pusher, user; Absence of clandestine drug laboratory; Active involvement of barangay officials in anti-drug activities; Existence of drug awareness, preventive education and information and;  Existence of voluntary and compulsory drug treatment and rehabilitation processing desk.
The DILG said  it is also incumbent upon barangays to adopt measures towards the prevention and eradication of drug abuse within their areas. All barangay captains are mandated by law to allot budget and enact ordinances intended to prevent, suppress and impose penalties for drug addiction, maintenance of drug dens, and drug pushing.
For his part, PDEA chair, Director General Aaron N. Aquino said they are gearing for a program that will ensure the ‘drug-clearing’ of the remaining 18,712 drug-affected barangays in the country by Year 2022.
Aquino said that these barangays represent 44.5 percent out of 42,045 barangays in the country that are still plagued by the drug menace. Out of the 18,712 drug-affected barangays, 7,817 are classified as slightly affected, 10,616 are moderately affected, while 279 barangays are seriously affected.
“PDEA intends to sustain the pace of clearing an average of 6,200 drug-affected barangays every year or 520 barangays every month, for the next three years. The mission of ridding the country’s drug problem by 2022 would be a reality,” the retired police general said.
According to the official, there are three basic parameters in determining barangay drug-affectation: slightly affected, moderately affected, and seriously affected.  
Aquino said that the National Capital Region (NCR) has the highest rate of barangay drug-affectation with 72.7 percent, followed by Region VII in Central Visayas with 72.4 percent; Region 5 in Bicol with 68.9 percent; Region 3 in Central Luzon with 63.6 percent; and Region IV-A in Calabarzon with 55.7 percent.
The regions least affected by illegal drugs are Cordillera Administrative Region with  7.2 percent; Region 8 in Eastern Visayas with 17.5 percent; and Region 13 in Caraga with 17.7 percent.
Aquino said that from July 1, 2016 to last September 30, a total of 14,922 barangays have already been declared cleared from illegal drugs.
“These barangays have reached drug-cleared status after issuance of a certification by members of the Oversight Committee on Barangay Drug-Clearing Program,” the official said.
“Once cleared, we monitor newly-declared drug-free barangays to ensure that they will maintain their status. All our efforts will go to waste if we allow the resurgence of illegal drug activities in these areas,” Aquino said.
To accelerate efforts against the proliferation of illegal drugs in drug-affected barangays, the government has adopted an integrated approach in securing the assistance of the local government units in drug-clearing operations pursuant to Dangerous Drugs Board  Regulation No. 3 Series of 2017, otherwise  known  as “Strengthening  the  Implementation of  the Barangay Drug-Clearing Program”, which includes the activation of Barangay Anti-Drug Abuse Councils (BADACs) in the communities.
