
# Producer SV Narayan was bowled over by the strong female protagonist

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/south-masala/producer-sv-narayan-was-bowled-over-by-the-strong-female-protagonist/articleshow/71844764.cms)

Ranganayaki: Volume 1 - Virginity releasing today, takes its title from the Puttanna Kanagal directed film of the same name. Puttanna was known for films portraying strong female characters. One of the reasons that director Dayal Padmanabhan wrote a novel of the same name was a tribute to the legendary director. His new film is based on the novel he wrote. Producer SV Narayan only heard the story of the novel and decided it was where his money will be. He had produced the film ATM earlier. “It was only the characterisations I heard from Dayal. It was enough to impress me. This is the kind of films I wanted to make,” he said. The film is the only Kannada entry in the Panorama section of the upcoming India International Film Festival in Goa in its 50th year. “What more could I have bargained for? It is such an honour. Of the over 60 films in the festival in its jubilee year, there is only one Kannada film and I am the producer. Dayal has made a film I am proud of,” he said. The film will have a limited release in about 70 screens across Karnataka today. The film stars Aditi Prabhudeva in the titular role with MG Srinivas, Trivikram, Shivaram, Yethiraj among others in supporting cast.
