
# Lawmaker: Rice tariff law ‘too rigid’ on use of RCEF

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:38:53+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/04/lawmaker-rice-tariff-law-too-rigid-on-use-of-rcef/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
SEN. Francis N. Pangilinan said he will file a bill amending the rice trade liberalization law to give the government more elbow room in providing direct cash assistance to planters affected by the surge in imports.
Pangilinan said the law is “too rigid” in the allocation of tariffs collected from imports as Republic Act (RA) 11203 only allows the government to extend cash assistance to farmers when collections exceed P10 billion.
He said direct cash assistance is the “fastest” and “most efficient” intervention that could help farmers cope with their transition to a liberal rice industry.
“The losses of farmers are in the billions after enjoying high prices in 2018. All these [Rice Competitiveness Enhancement Fund or RCEF] interventions are good in the long run but the cash assistance is critical,” he told the BusinessMirror in a recent interview.
Pangilinan said he would file a bill to amend the law to include cash assistance as “mandatory intervention” for rice planters in the next three to five years.
“The P10-billion RCEF has to be realigned so there’s a need to amend the current [law]. What we want to amend is that [cash assistance] should not [be tied to] excess tariffs,” he said. “A certain amount should be available now and be spent in the next three to five years.”
Under RA  11203, any amount in excess of P10 billion, as certified by the Bureau of Customs (BOC), could be used to give direct assistance to rice planters.
Pangilinan noted that the Department of Agriculture (DA) already provides direct cash assistance to rice farmers despite the absence of a certification from the BOC.
Once Congress resumes session, Pangilinan said the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Food will conduct a hearing to get updates on the implementation of the P10-billion RCEF.
He said the money should be channeled to direct cash assistance instead of allowing RCEF implementing agencies to absorb it.
Pangilinan flagged the absorptive capacity of the RCEF implementing agencies, which are small-sized government agencies focused only on research activities.
“When we resume sessions we will have a hearing on this, maybe a joint hearing by Agriculture committee and Finance committee, so we can actually see the numbers. If they cannot absorb the money, then give it as cash,” he said.
“The whole bidding process of the implementing agencies could take as much as four months, and that is too long. Those interventions would not be felt immediately by farmers,” he added.
