
# Man ran 'Deliveroo of sexual services', court told

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:08:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/man-ran-the-deliveroo-of-sexual-services-court-told-1757337/)

A man allegedly ran the "Deliveroo of sexual services" by transporting vulnerable women to meetings across Northern Ireland, the High Court has heard.
Prosecutors claimed six victims have now emerged in a case which involved them being advertised online for unprotected, risky sex.
Some of them were homeless, spent time in care or addicted to drugs, a judge was told.
Details emerged as Martin Heaney was refused bail on human trafficking and controlling prostitution charges from which he is suspecting of amassing up to £140,000.
The 57-year-old, of Maypole Park in Dromore, Co Down, denies the offences, telling police he was just an unpaid driver.
He was arrested on September 29 as part of a major probe by the PSNI's modern slavery unit.
The investigation centres on activities over a two-year period stretching back to October 2017, when adverts appeared on a website allegedly linked to Heaney.
During that period nearly £140,000 was deposited into his bank accounts, the court heard.
He currently faces three counts of human trafficking and three counts of controlling prostitution for gain.
Further charges include acquiring criminal property, brothel keeping and paying for sexual services.
The alleged offences involve driving women to encounters in Omagh, Dungannon, Limavady, Newtownabbey and Carrickfergus.
With inquiries ongoing, Crown lawyer Samuel Magee said: "At present there are six victims, each of whom has co-operated with the police investigation."
During questioning Heaney insisted his only involvement was to collect and take some of them to destinations around Northern Ireland.
But according to the prosecution he can be "overwhelmingly" linked through CCTV and telephone evidence, along with financial documents and website information.
Peter Coiley, defending, stressed his client denies any involvement in sexual activities.
"He indicated his role was simply an unpaid driver," counsel submitted.
The court was also told that cash found in the accused's bank account can be explained from the £130,000 sale of his late father's home.
Bail was refused.
