
# House Republicans may shuffle intelligence panel roster ahead of impeachment hearings

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:16:46+00:00**

Author: **Susan Ferrechio  &amp; David M. Drucker**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/congress/house-republicans-may-shuffle-intelligence-panel-roster-ahead-of-impeachment-hearings)

House Republicans are weighing a move to shuffle the roster of the House Intelligence Committee ahead of public impeachment hearings.
Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio is among lawmakers Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy may move to the spy panel in order help bolster the cross-examination of witnesses testifying against President Trump, who Democrats accuse of abusing his office for political gain.
McCarthy’s spokesman Matt Sparks confirmed the lawmaker from California may make short-term “adjustments” to the panel but did not indicate who may be added or removed temporarily.
Two GOP lawmakers on the panel, Reps. Mike Conaway and Will Hurd, both of Texas, are not running for another term and could be among those McCarthy bumps.
Jordan is among the lawmakers from three panels who have attended the closed-door witness depositions that Democrats have been conducting in the basement of the Capitol.
Members of the House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs, and Government Oversight and Reform panels are invited to attend the closed-door hearings. But only members of the House Intelligence Committee will conduct the public hearings.
Jordan is the top Republican on the House Oversight panel.
“The process definitely would be enhanced and augmented by having the insight of someone who has been in all of the depositions,” Republican Rep. Mark Meadows of North Carolina, who along with Jordan has attended the closed-door proceedings, told reporters. “Whether that is in a formal role, as a member of the Intelligence Committee, or whether that is in a supporting role, we will wait to hear from Leader McCarthy about how he wants to move forward.”
Jordan is traveling and not available to comment, a representative said.
