
# Denis Suarez: Valverde said I deserved more chances

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:37:29+00:00**

Author: **Sport.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/barca/denis-suarez-valverde-said-that-i-had-deserved-more-chances-at-barca-7718724)

Denis Suarez returns to Camp Nou on Saturday in a Celta Vigo shirt. He spent two spells at Barcelona, the first in 2013 when he joined the club from Manchester City.
His second spell ended due to tough competition, but he has explained in an interview with Goal.com that Ernesto Valverde recognised he deserved to play more.
"Valverde said that I had deserved more chances, but there were so many top-level players in the squad it's not easy (to pick a team) and he had to make certain decisions," Denis said.
"I have a phenomenal relationship with him and it's not gone so bad for him at Barça. In the first year, he won the double, and he nearly did the same last year, the Copa del Rey just got away.
"How would I describe my time at Barca? As bittersweet, maybe. I had great times, normal and bad ones.
"I took away with me the experience of having been at the best club in the world, I won titles with Barcelona, I competed to be in the starting XI of a side that has been the best in the world, I was in a time when there was the greatest player of all-time in my position, [Andres] Iniesta."
Barcelona have failed to win their last two games in all competitions but will look to get back to winning ways against a Celta side now coached by Oscar Garcia this weekend.
