
# Virgin Media to Install 1,200 EV Charging Points Across the Country

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:30:26+00:00**

Author: **Shabana Arif**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/virgin-media-ev-charging/)

Following a successful trial of transforming its broadband cabinets into EV charging points, Virgin has more on the way in the next 18 months.
The ISP set up a series of test sites earlier this year, and now it's rolling out 1,200 more over the next 18 months as part of the new service, dubbed Virgin Media Park & Charge, with plans to have all 40,000 street cabinets eventually adapted to be able to charge up your EV.
The finer details of locations and prices haven't been hashed out yet, but during the trial, ISP Review noted that the charge was £3.50 per hour with a maximum stay time of four hours - and that's on top of the parking charge. Overstaying the allotted time slot results in a £10 penalty.
“Leveraging street cabinets allows Liberty Global to look beyond traditional uses of telecom infrastructure and make a positive impact on the environment and in communities throughout the UK. By bringing more electric vehicle chargers and associated connectivity to Britain’s streets, we are making a significant contribution to Innovate UK’s ambition to encourage more people to buy electric cars," said Liberty Global’s VP of global energy and utilities, Jason Simpson. The company acquired Virgin Media back in 2013.
While we don't know where the next charging points will be popping up, we do know that a number of local authorities are involved in the next phase of the project, including the West Midlands Combined Authority, and Councils in Oxfordshire, Liverpool, Southend-on-Sea, Worcestershire, Wandsworth, Croydon, Northamptonshire, Hammersmith & Fulham, and Belfast. [Trusted Reviews]

        Feature image credit: Unsplash
      
