
# Tuchel not interested as Bayern set timeframe in coach search

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:20:13+00:00**

Author: **AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE**

Original: [Capital Sports](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2019/11/05/bayern-to-name-coach-within-three-weeks-tuchel-approached-report/)

Berlin, Germany, Nov 5 – Bayern Munich president Uli Hoeness says the German giants expect to name Niko Kovac’s replacement as coach within three weeks although Paris Saint-Germain boss Thomas Tuchel said Tuesday he is not interested in the job.
Kovac was sacked on Sunday after 16 months in charge in the wake of Bayern’s 5-1 drubbing at Eintracht Frankfurt, which left the defending champions fourth in the Bundesliga.
Kovac’s assistant Hansi Flick has been named interim coach.
Hoeness says Bayern’s senior figures will “think calmly about how to handle” finding a new coach with a decision expected to be made during the forthcoming international break.
“I think that by the time the next away game comes around in Duesseldorf (on November 23), we’ll know how the coach’s issue has been resolved,” Hoeness added.
According to Sky Germany, Tuchel, who is under contract at PSG until 2021, has been approached by Bayern but has ruled out an immediate switch.
“It doesn’t interest me because I’m the coach of PSG. I have a contract for next season. I can’t think for a minute about another club,” Tuchel said on the eve of his side’s Champions League game with Club Brugge.
Ajax coach Erik ten Hag, one of the early favourites having coached the Bayern reserves from 2013-15, has also announced he will not leave the Dutch side before the end of the season.
Massimiliano Allegri, Jose Mourinho and Arsene Wenger, who are all currently without a club, have been mentioned by the German media as possible candidates to coach Bayern.
Flick, Joachim Loew’s assistant coach when Germany won the 2014 World Cup, will be in charge at least for Bayern’s home matches on Wednesday in the Champions League against Olympiakos and Saturday’s Bundesliga showdown with Borussia Dortmund.
(Visited 30 times, 1 visits today)
