
# Brendan Rodgers told he's the obvious candidate to replace Unai Emery at Arsenal

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:48:44+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/brendan-rodgers-told-hes-obvious-20824619)

Brendan Rodgers is the "obvious" candidate to replace Unai Emery at Arsenal .
That's according to former Tottenham manager Tim Sherwood, who says if he was in charge at Arsenal he'd "certainly by trying to tap him up".
The Gunners have struggled under Emery this season and have won just two of their past nine fixtures in the Premier League.
Fans have started to get on the Spaniard's back and a number of managers have been linked with Emery's job in recent weeks.
Leicester City meanwhile are punching well above their weight under Rodgers.
The northern Irishman has guided the Foxes to third in the Premier League, and Sherwood reckons Rodgers could do the same at Arsenal.
Speaking on Premier League Productions, Sherwood said: "They [Arsena] might not have to go far to negotiate with another manager because he might be sitting right next to him [at the weekend].
"I think Brendan Rodgers is an obvious choice for a top, top Premier League team. Would he want to leave Leicester ? I'm not saying he would.
"But if I was at the head of it at Arsenal, I like Brendan Rodgers, I think he's a better manager than Unai Emery. I would certainly be trying to tap him up."
Arsenal take on Vitoria in the Europa League on Wednesday before travelling to the midlands to play Rodgers' high-flying Foxes.
Last time out Leicester City, who have battered the likes of Southampton and Newcastle this season, beat Crystal Palace 2-0 at Selhurst Park.
