
# Katie Price says she wasn't picked for X Factor: Celebrity as Simon Cowell 'fancies' her

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:13:58+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/katie-price-says-wasnt-picked-20792990)

Katie Price has claimed she wasn't approached for X Factor : Celebrity because Simon Cowell "fancies" her.
The former glamour model, 41, has made desperate attempts for a music career over the years, and now she's shared her outrage at being snubbed from the singing competition.
She insisted she wasn't approached for the talent show because of 60-year-old Simon.
On her new YouTube video, the mum-of-five recalled her reality TV career experience as she discussed programmes she'd want to do in the future.
"Why the f**k did they not have me on Celebrity X Factor? I so wanted to do that, I put it out there so many times," she snapped.
A distraught Katie then moved on to slam contestants who made it onto the show, and added: "I am sorry, I normally love X Factor but I have to say that Megan McKenna has to win the show for sure.
"I didn't think they made a good choice there, I don't think the others are that great."
Admitting how much of a great talent she is, Katie said: "They should have had me on it, they'd have got more headlines and I can sing."
But she then cheekily said: "Maybe it's because Simon fancies me, wheeeey!"
In recent weeks the star has attempted to give her singing career another go as she joined forces with Sam Bailey.
Katie revealed she was recording a duet with the X Factor 2013 winner, 42.
She shared updates from their studio session on her Instagram stories, with the duo belting out the tunes in the recording booth.
They appear to be recording a cover of the 1988 song 1-2-3 by Gloria Estefan and Miami Sound Machine.
In a clip Sam is in the booth in a black and white check shirt, belting out: "My love just come and get it."
But all has yet to be revealed as Katie has still not released any music.
