
# Man, 22, arrested on suspicion of murder after 10 month old girl dies

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:29:33+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-man-22-arrested-suspicion-20794379)

A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder following the death of a 10-month-old baby girl.
Shortly after 5.30pm yesterday the ambulance service was called to an address in Farnworth, Bolton to reports that a 10-month-old girl was unresponsive.
Paramedics swiftly attended and the girl was taken to hospital, however she sadly died a short time after arrival.
A 22-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murder and remains in custody for questioning.
The investigation is in its early stages and a Home Office post mortem will take place later today.
Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Wilkinson, of Greater Manchester Police’s Major Incident Team, said: “First and foremost I want to extend my sincere condolences to the family of this little girl, who are being supported at this incredibly difficult time by specially trained officers.
“The investigation team is determined to understand how and why this little girl died, and we have arrested a man on suspicion of murder who will be questioned by detectives later today.
“We will be continuing with enquiries throughout the days and weeks ahead and I would encourage anyone who has information to please contact police.”
Anybody with information should contact police on 0161 856 9908, quoting incident number 2544 of 01/11/19, or the independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.
