
# Xiaomi Watch Pro is in the works too, but not coming so soon - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:20:28+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/04/xiaomi-watch-pro-is-in-the-works-too-but-not-coming-so-soon/)

Xiaomi Watch Pro is in the works too, but not coming so soon5 (100%) 1 vote
Chinese tech titan – Xiaomi is all set to unveil the Mi CC9 Pro smartphone, the Mi TV 5, and the Mi Watch in a few hours time. In true Xiaomi’s fashion, the firm has been actively drip-feeding us with bits of information, so there is virtually nothing we already do not know about these devices.
So far, official image and video renders released by Xiaomi suggests the upcoming watch bears a striking resemblance to the Apple Watch. While that seems like a turn off for a number of fans, hard-core fans are all aware the Xiaomi brand is founded on copying everything Apple.
Well, there appears to be some good news for those not excited about the Mi Watch striking resemblance to the Apple Watch. Now, a fresh report says there is actually a Xiaomi Watch Pro in the works too. According to serial leaker and blogger @Digital Chat Station, the Xiaomi Watch Pro will come with a completely new circular design, and not based on the Apple Watch model. a circular dial. Sadly, though, the Watch Pro isn’t launching alongside the standard Watch.
How exactly the Xiaomi WatchPro differs from the Mi Watch outside of the design has yet to be revealed. However, there are speculations it might get a beefier battery, more RAM, storage, and perhaps, a more powerful processor. Apparently, it will be priced more than the standard Mi Watch which the tipster claims would sell at  ¥1299 (~$185), so the Xiaomi Watch Pro come with a price tag of about $200.
