
# My Parents: An Introduction / This Does Not Belong To You by Aleksandar Hemon review – socialism and nostalgia

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:00:19+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Hall**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2019/nov/06/my-parents-this-does-not-belong-to-you-aleksandar-hemon-review)


        The acclaimed Bosnian-American writer considers his parents’ broken dreams and recalls first love and childhood days in Sarajevo
      
The writer Aleksandar Hemon began his second life as a 28-year-old in 1992, when he was unable to return home after a trip to the United States. He had entered the US on a Yugoslav passport, but in his absence Bosnia became independent following a referendum. Serbian nationalists, backed by the Milošević government in Belgrade, refused to accept the results. They took over towns and villages where Serbs were in the majority and started massacring other ethnic groups. Within a couple of months, Hemon’s native Sarajevo was under siege: his parents caught the last train out of the city. He was then in Chicago, crashing at an acquaintance’s flat.
Desperate, and without a country to call his own, he began to live in the world of letters – much like Joyce 100 years ago. He went quickly from being a Bosnian writer to a shrewd prose stylist in English. By the turn of the millennium he had published The Question of Bruno, his first book of stories. He wrote for Esquire, the Paris Review and the New Yorker. His novels and essays regularly won prizes and fellowships. The success, the spectacular reversal of fortune, was in one sense quintessentially American. But Sarajevo remained a point of departure in all his work, a lost Eden shattered by snipers and tanks. War keeps inevitably cropping up on the sidelines of his vision, most acutely in his shorter fiction. It renders poignant a father’s wish to make a film about his life in “The Bees, Part I”; it colours the memory of a family reunion in “Exchange of Pleasant Words”. Inherent in Hemon’s repeated reimagining of his own odyssey and his desire to recall Sarajevo before the war is the question: what did peace even feel like?
In two new memoirs published in one volume, Hemon attempts a nostalgic answer. They are composite portraits of Tito’s lapsed Yugoslavian project, a “framework” into which Hemon’s parents grew, since it provided a way out of poverty and generations of ethnic strife. They could move out of their respective villages thanks to such benevolent postwar policies as mandatory free education and a recognition of women’s rights. They met in Belgrade while still in college, worked in state-owned companies and lived in state-subsidised housing. They saw their own futures as intimately aligned with that of the new nation, and volunteered in youth brigades, taking part in choreographed celebrations of patriotism. Their son, however, despised the collective optimism. At 16, he quoted the Sex Pistols to his parents during arguments, and fancied himself a Bosnian Holden Caulfield.
The older Hemon knows better. His feelings about his mother’s socialist lifeline have changed: “Now I envy her; I envy the sense that she was building something larger.” His parents ended up as refugees in Canada in 1993. They moved into the 15th floor of an apartment building in Hamilton, Ontario – “There was so much nothing in their new place they could not begin to fill it up.” War had wiped out their faith in reality, their sense of fulfilment in working towards something better for their children. They barely knew anyone in Canada; they scarcely spoke any English. They began afresh in late middle age, working multiple jobs. By 2000, they had saved up enough money to buy a house. Now in their 80s, his parents run an apiary out of their backyard – “Hemon’s Honey” – and every spring they make a trip to their old apartment in Sarajevo, “where they spend most of their time … getting the news on who has died since last year, who might go before their next visit”. Hemon recognises traces of the broken Yugoslav dream in their belief that food “can never be a matter of mere leisure” and the contentment they seem to derive from work for work’s sake.
This Does Not Belong to You is different: Hemon seems responsible here not to his parents, only to his boyhood self. In vignettes rarely more than a page long, he chronicles his earliest memory, his first love, the first time he was beaten up, an entire day spent with his sister breaking dishes in a garbage dump: “Now I realise it was one of the happiest days of my childhood, perhaps of my entire life.”
The short, dense passages never feel arbitrary. He is able to recreate the process of recovering memories on the page. War seems like an impossibility, and we inhabit what it was like to grow up in the shadow of a paternalistic regime, where everything seemed fully established – “all the points and objects fixed, all the hierarchies and structures unalterable”. The focus is on lesser acts of damage, a tape recorder he took apart in a fit of adolescent curiosity, the shops that were razed in his Sarajevo neighbourhood to build high-rises and supermarkets. Forgetting is the worst crime, because “what could not be recollected never happened and was hence passed over in silence”. In lovely, languorous sentences, Hemon passes over nothing, and records the inner wars of his previous life.

        • My Parents: An Introduction / This Does Not Belong to You is published by Pan Macmillan (£14.99). To order a copy go to 
        
          guardianbookshop.com
        
         or call 020-3176 3837. Free UK p&p over £15, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
      
