
# 5 Tips For Skilled Remote Workers Who Want To Be Happy And Earn More

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Abdullahi Muhammed**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/abdullahimuhammed/2019/11/06/5-tips-for-skilled-remote-workers-who-want-to-be-happy-and-earn-more/)

Like any other career, remote work has its ups and downs. However, a new study from OWL labs shows that remote workforce tends to be more content than their cubicle-dwelling peers: 71% of remote workers report being happy with their jobs while only 55% of on site workers say the same. In addition to this, skilled remote workers also reported earning a higher pay. Per OWL labs, remote workers earn six figure salaries 2.2x more frequently than on-site workers.Still, remote workers do face certain challenges. Many struggle with stress and overwork. Also, while remote workers may earn more, they aren’t always as connected to their workplaces as their on site peers and so they miss on networking and promotion opportunities. Lastly, solo work often translates to loneliness that can easily escalate into depression unless addressed early. 
If you feel that remote work is more of the latter, rather than the former (happiness and high pay), here are five tips that can help you turn the scales. 

        1. Actively seek camaraderie with others
      
Isolation can really take a toll on remote workers. If you’re holed away in a home office with little human contact, that’s unhealthy. In addition to that, remote workers often miss out on casual friendships and interactions that go hand in hand with working in an office. As Laurel Farer noted in her post: “The danger of remote isolation isn’t just social, it’s informational.” 
To compensate for the lack of in-office batner and high-fives, consider joining a  local work co-op or co-working space. If you are feeling particularly bold, a co-living arrangement might be worth exploring. 

        2. Go into the office
      
Your co-workers who are in office each day have a bit of an advantage. They are the first to hear office news. They also know when things are stressful and when things are going quite well. Having that kind of inside information is beneficial to them.
In addition to this, as the company makes policies and decisions, the opinions and needs of in office staff are much more likely to be taken into consideration. To avoid becoming the “forgotten worker,” make a point to visit the workplace regularly. Check in with your co-workers. Meet up with your boss. Maybe even have lunch in the office cafeteria. It will help you to stay connected.
If you are working for a fully remote team, you can encourage the management to host “virtual meetups” more often, or set up meetups either virtually or in-person with team mates living nearby. 

        3. Combine remote work with travel
      
Is remote work really worthwhile if you aren’t maximizing its benefits? Since you don’t need to go into the office on a daily basis, consider using that opportunity to travel. You can travel to Asia, hike the Smoky Mountain Trail, or join a digital nomad retreat, mastermind or workshop. Taking a vacation (or even a workation) can help you reduce stress and boredom.

        4. Seek feedback from clients and employers
      
Not all remote workers receive the benefits of performance reviews, or even knowing whether or not their client or boss is happy with their latest project. Worse, clients may not take the time to tell you if something is wrong. Instead, they simply won’t hire you again.
This is why it’s very important for you to actively seek out feedback. Reach out to your clients or employer after you’ve finished a project. Then, ask specific questions. This is the best way to get feedback that you can actually use. 
For example, ask if you effectively communicated during the product, or if your work on a particular task was accurate. That’s much better than simply asking, “Are you happy with my work?”

        5. Continue your education 
      
In order to continue to get work and ask for increasingly higher rates, you need to update your skill set. Don’t be stagnant or complacent. Instead, pursue opportunities to continue your education. You can do this by attending a college or university. 
If that’s not feasible, try online learning: maybe an online MBA program or a course through open course providers like Coursera or Udemy. Many of these offer certificates in skills that are marketable. As well, science proves that to stay happy, we need to be regularly engaged in challenging but doable activities. So how about mastering that new coding language, eh? 
The key to staying happy and successful as a remote employee is maintaining healthy connections with your teammates, investing in personal/professional development and pursuing a good balance between your work and personal life. By applying the tips above, you’ll be able to accomplish just that.
