
# Skoda Kamiq GT coupe SUV revealed in China

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:48:41+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/skoda-kamiq-gt-coupe-suv-revealed-in-china/)

Skoda Auto's China arm has revealed the coupe-SUV version of the Skoda Kamiq compact SUV. Unlike the European Kamiq which sits on the VW' Group's latest MQB-A0 platform, the Chinese standard Kamiq is built on an older structure and has a much simpler design.
With the Kamiq GT though, the firm has taken design cues from the European car, although the basic structure remains unchanged.  So you get elements like the bigger Skoda grille, the tapering headlamps and the more aggressive bodywork. The Kamiq GT is 19mm longer than the standard car and comes with a higher rear deck, a window line that kinks higher and more slope to its roof-line. The interiors though, are reminiscent of what you would find in older Skodas in India, like the rapid. You have the same organic yet clinical layout we've seen in those cars.
No details are available on the engine options that will power the Kamiq GT but it is expected it will continue with the standard Kamiq's powertrains. These are naturally-aspirated 1.5-litre four-cylinder unit making 110PS and 145Nm, paired with a six-speed automatic.  The other engine option is a 1.2-litre turbo-four-cylinder that puts out 117PS and 200Nm which comes with a seven-speed DCT.
It is unlikely that the Kamiq GT will be sold anywhere other than China. The firm also sells a coupe-ish version of the Kodiaq, called the Kodaiq GT.
