
# Toto Wolff believes Lewis Hamilton could be tempted to a move to Ferrari

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Bobby Vincent**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49515/toto-wolff-believes-lewis-hamilton-could-be-tempted-to-a-move-to-ferrari.html)


        Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff has revealed his team have options if six-time world champion Lewis Hamilton decides to "chase the sun" and moves to Ferrari for the 2021 Formula 1 season.
      
Hamilton is contracted with the Silver Arrows until at least the end of next season, but he has not yet signed a long-term deal with the 2019 constructors' champions.
The British driver made it six F1 world titles on Sunday, as he finished in second at the United States Grand Prix, leaving him just one title off Michael Schumacher's all-time record of seven drivers' titles.
There have been some rumours of Hamilton potentially wanting to switch to Ferrari for the latter stages of his career and this is something his team principal is prepared for if the situation arises.
"It's natural that drivers always dream of Ferrari, the most important brand in Formula 1," Wolff said to Sky Italia. "Red is like the sun in Formula 1. He needs to be with a team and with people who love to work. And his emotions and heart are definitely with Mercedes today.

        "We hope to have the two most competitive drivers in Formula 1. And he (Hamilton) is our priority today."
      
Wolff admitted Mercedes would be prepared if Hamilton did make the shock move to their Italian rivals: "If he wants to have a look at the market, we have to as well. And there are others that I like."
