
# Arsenal fans brutally troll Unai Emery on his birthday amid Jose Mourinho rumours

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:26:52+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-fans-brutally-troll-unai-20801026)

Arsenal fans have brutally trolled manager Unai Emery on his birthday amid increased speculation he could be on the verge of being replaced by Jose Mourinho.
Emery turned 48 on Sunday, 24 hours after seeing his side held to a 1-1 draw at home to Wolves to extend their winless run to three Premier League games.
Early in the morning, Arsenal's official Twitter account posted a "happy birthday" to their boss.
But supporters quickly replied demanding his 'present' be his departure from the Emirates after a tough spell.
"Happy bday but sorry it's time to go," one fan wrote, whilst another said: "As a birthday gift he should get sacked."
"Happy Birthday but goodbye," came another reply, with others demanding they "present him the termination letter" or "sack him right after he cuts the cake."
Another proposed: "Happy birthday Unai Emery. The best birthday present the club can give you is a £6M cheque buying off the remainder of your contract, thanking you for your services and wishing you the best of luck for the future.
"You get the money and we get our Arsenal back. A win win for all."
The brutal response from fans comes amid claims head of football Raul Sanllehi met with Jose Mourinho for dinner last week to discuss the prospect of him taking over at the Emirates.
It is claimed Emery could have just one or two games left to save his job as the club hierarchy consider a switch in the November international break.
They are reportedly impressed with Mourinho's plans for their current squad as they consider a move to an experienced Premier League manager to ensure they get back into the top four after a stuttering start under Emery.
