
# General election: Boris Johnson strives to get campaign back on track by promising January Brexit

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:29:22+00:00**

Author: **Nicola Bartlett, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/nicola-bartlett/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/general-election-boris-johnson-strives-20827446)

Boris Johnson tried to get his election campaign back on track after it was rocked by a series of Tory disasters and scandals including the resignation of a Cabinet minister.
Desperately trying to shift the focus he unveiled his party's slogan to "Get Brexit Done" and promised he would put his deal back to the Commons as soon as parliament returns after the election.
He said: "On day one of the new parliament in December we will start getting our deal through so we get Brexit done in January and put the uncertainty behind us."
 
Entering the stage to loud rock music an ebullient Mr Johnson told a crowd of activists in Birmingham's NEC: "It great to see so many of you here ... at the beginning of what I think is the most important election our country has faced for a generation."
In his typically verbose style the PM's speech compared Labour's Brexit policy to "the suicidal knights in monty python", the "blocked" parliament to an "anaconda that has swallowed a tapir" and said his deal was ready to go - in the microwave.
The crowd laughed appreciatively as he joked: "You just whack it in the microwave, gas mark... I'm not very good at cooking.
Gas mark 4 it is there. It is ready to go. Prick the lid."
Mr Johnson said: "I have heard some people in the last few days trying to attack our deal.
"My friends I think they are trying to cast aspersions on it. They remind me a bit of candle-sellers at the dawn of the age of the electric light bulb.
"Or the makers of typewriters on beholding their first lap top computer
"They have a terrible sense that they are about to lose their market
He insisted: "This deal delivers everything I campaigned for for Brexit."
Earlier the Tory leader addressed the nation from the steps of Downing Street urging voters to "come with us" to get Brexit done.
But as he kicked off his bid to win back power at a big Tory rally in the West Midlands last night his campaign was already in meltdown.
Cabinet minister Alun Cairns was forced to resign after lying about his knowledge of an allegation that a Tory candidate had sabotaged a rape trial.
Jeremy Corbyn urged him not to fight the election at all after it emerged he planned to stay on.
 
In a desperate attempt to distract from the party’s woes, Mr Johnson ludicrously compared Mr Corbyn’s leadership to the forced removals and deaths of millions of Soviet peasants.
The PM made the bizarre comparison as he tried to distract from a string of scandals in his own party including a doctored campaign video, a failed bid to use the civil service to cost Labour policies and Jacob Rees-Mogg ’s shameful comments on the Grenfell tragedy.
Mr Johnson visited Buckingham Palace to formally tell the Queen about the December 12 general election - but was again in hot water after breaking with convention and talking about his private audiences with the Queen, saying “she always asks the best questions.”
A No 10 source said: “It hasn’t been an ideal 24 hours, but we’re getting the barnacles off the boat now. The campaign launches with the PM shortly and from then on it’s no distractions.” 
