
# A shimmering Chocolate Orange Gin Liqueur is now on sale at Morrisons for £10

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:50:16+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/food-drink/shimmering-chocolate-orange-gin-liqueur-20830221)

We thought nobody could beat M&S when it came to seasonal showstoppers, but Morrisons has just launched a Chocolate Orange Gin Liqueur that shimmers with bronze and gold glitter when you shake the bottle.
As part of Marks and Spencer’s Christmas menu , the high street favourite recently released the Clementine Gin Liqueur Snow Globe - a £15 tasty tipple with a festive flavour that comes complete with edible 23 carat gold leaf pieces.
And when the bottle is turned, the pieces float, creating a snow globe effect, making the drink an amazing gift or a conversation-starting centrepiece.
 
Morrisons Chocolate Orange flavour Gin Liqueur combines the zesty and refreshing flavour of orange with indulgent, velvety chocolate, as well as tasting festive - it also looks the part too, shimmering with bronze and gold glitter when you shake it.
As it's a gin liqueur, it's got a slightly lower alcohol content, with an alcohol by volume (ABV) of 20 per cent.
 
Other flavours in the Morrisons' new gin range include orange and rhubarb, passion fruit and plum maple and cinnamon.
All the new flavours come in 50cl bottles and cost £10 each until November 24 where they will increase to £12.
Elsewhere on the internet, a bottle of non-shimmering Chocolate Orange Gin will set you back £33.95 a bottle at Master of Malt, while Sipsmith also has an Orange and Cacao version, that's also clear with no glitter, for £20 at Tesco.
Mike Kenny, Morrisons Spirits Buying Manager, told the Mirror Online: “We know our customers are on the lookout for chocolate and orange combinations over the festive period, so we’re excited to be able to offer this exciting new gin liqueur.”
