
# Nicola Sturgeon says Corbyn Government will agree to IndyRef2

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:42:54+00:00**

Author: **Paul Hutcheon, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/paul-hutcheon/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/politics/nicola-sturgeon-says-corbyn-government-20787677)

Nicola Sturgeon has upped the stakes in the general election campaign by insisting a Labour Government will agree to indyref2 .
The First Minister made the claim days after she had a private meeting with Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn.
Sturgeon has demanded another referendum in 2020 and will formally request the power from the UK Government by Christmas.
Labour used to be hostile to a second referendum, but shadow chancellor John McDonnell overturned the policy in the summer by saying that his party would not block one.
He and Corbyn's spokesman later added that indyref2 would not be considered in the formative years of a Labour Government.
It is widely believed the new position is based on an assumption Labour is unlikely to win a majority and may have to rely on SNP votes to take office.
 
However the Tories, who have ruled out giving MSPs the power to organise another referendum, pounced on the u-turn and claimed Labour is weak on the Union.
At a campaign event in Leith today, Sturgeon said the SNP would not back any formal coalitions after the December election, but praised the Labour stance.
The UK Labour position, as far as I can tell, is [that] they oppose independence, they don’t want a second referendum. That's all perfectly legitimate. I don’t agree with it, but it’s legitimate. But they accept that it’s not for Westminster to decide these questions.
Asked by the Daily Record whether she believed Labour would grant a Section 30 order, which would temporarily transfer the power to organise a referendum Holyrood, she said: "Yes".
Asked why she was so confident, she replied: "I'm a believer in the power of democracy.
"I don't think, in your heart of hearts, any of you believe that this attempt to block the will of the Scottish people is sustainable."
It emerged yesterday that Corbyn and Sturgeon met for one-to-one talks in London on October 23rd.
Days earlier, the First Minister had warned the Labour leader not to bother picking up the phone unless he was prepared to back a second vote.
She also said yesterday that her discussions with Corbyn had centred around Brexit, rather than independence.
