
# Gardner Minshew mania arrives in London as Jacksonville Jaguars face Houston Texans

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:55:57+00:00**

Author: **Mirror.co.uk**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/american-sports/gardner-minshew-mania-arrives-london-20800089)

The Jacksonville Jaguars feared their season was over before it had a chance to get going when starting quarterback Nick Foles broke his collarbone during their opening game against Kansas City.
However, the Jags head into Sunday’s meeting against the Houston Texans at Wembley with a 4-4 record and are still in the playoff hunt after unearthing a rising star in rookie Gardner Minshew.
The injury to former Super Bowl MVP Foles saw the introduction of the ex-Washington State quarterback, who was selected in the sixth round of the 2019 Draft.
And although he entered the Chiefs game with limited expectations, the 23-year-old quickly showed signs of his promise and finished his NFL debut with 22 completions from 25 pass attempts, scoring two touchdowns.
His performance saw him retain the starting job in Foles’ absence and he has seized the opportunity, throwing for 1,976 yards and 13 touchdowns ahead of his first appearance in London.
Fans at Wembley will be exposed to a number of the NFL’s top performers including Texans’ duo Deshaun Watson and DeAndre Hopkins, as well as Jaguars stars Leonard Fournette, Calais Campbell and Myles Jack - but Minshew arrives in the capital as one of the main attractions.
 
“He’s been great,” former Jags running-back Maurice Jones-Drew tells Mirror Sport. “He's had a long road and played in a lot of different offences – that moulded him to be tough.
"He went to several schools and played Junior College Football [with Northwest Mississippi Community College], but he made one big decision that helped his life. Instead of following up on an offer to go into coaching, he chose to play one year at Washington State to have the opportunity to go to the NFL and he’s taken advantage of it.”
As part of his impressive start to the season, Minshew has displayed flashes of brilliance that have showcased his excellent movement and ability to keep plays alive - traits that have allowed the likes of Patrick Mahomes, Watson, and Russell Wilson to enjoy significant success in the league.
Those skills were particularly evident during a 26-24 win over the Denver Broncos, which the saw the quarterback dodge three defenders before finding his receiver in the endzone.
But it’s not only exploits on the field that have turned the sixth-round draft pick into an early-season sensation. His attitude, distinctive appearance and style – highlighted by his retro moustache, headbands and cut-shorts – have contributed to the rise of ‘Minshew Mania’, which has inspired several fans to attend games dressed like the quarterback.
“He has that moxie,” explains Jones-Drew, who was selected for three Pro Bowls before his retirement in 2015 and now works as an analyst for NFL Network. “You can’t really explain it but he finds ways to make plays week-in, week-out.
“From what I understand he’s also a great person in the locker room and he gets about his business. He brings the fun back to football with all the plays he makes and that’s awesome.
“He may have crazy moustaches and crazy hair, but he’s like ‘dude, this is me – like it or not, this is who I’m going to be’.”
Jones-Drew’s assessment of the eye-catching rookie was also backed up by Jags' head coach Doug Marrone ahead of the team’s seventh appearance in the UK capital.
“A lot of people looking on the outside are seeing all the headbands and the moustaches, or for lack of a better word, 'The Mania’," Marrone said on Friday.
"But I don’t see that within the building. I see a young man who is focused on doing the best job he can for his team-mates. He’s extremely intelligent, he doesn’t want to let anyone down and he’s someone who doesn’t really get rattled - he’s got a really good, even personality and it's served him well.
“People gravitate to him because he’s a good communicator and he’s got good leadership skills – you see that but he also puts in a lot of work that people don’t see.”
Although there were doubts whether Minshew's NFL career would take off, his promising start has convinced several onlookers that he has what it takes to be a starter in the league.
And even though Foles is close to completing his comeback – with a return expected in week 11 – it remains to be seen if Marrone will choose to stick with the rookie.
Foles is no stranger to a quarterback battle, having found himself in Minshew’s shoes as Carson Wentz’s back-up in Philadelphia. An injury to the Eagles starter during the 2017 season saw the 30-year-old step up to lead the NFC East side to their first Super Bowl before impressing enough the following year to earn a four-year $88million contract from the Jags before the 2019 season.
“I think the Jags are going to have a tough decision to make once Nick Foles comes back,” adds Jones-Drew. “Minshew has been winning, keeping you in games and doing some good stuff, so that will be exciting to see.
“People are going to say that Foles will have to look over his shoulder, but that’s the same thing Carson Wentz was doing while he was at Philadelphia.
“I think Nick understands that this kid has kept the team in contention and in position for him to make a run if and when he comes back.
“So I think more pressure is on Doug Marrone and that coaching staff to say who will play."
