
# Escort who exposed MP Keith Vaz sex and cocaine scandal is training to be lawyer

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:18:10+00:00**

Author: **Nick Dorman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/nick-dorman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/escort-who-exposed-mp-keith-20798335)

A male escort who exposed sex and cocaine scandal MP Keith Vaz is following in his footsteps – by training to be a lawyer.
The man revealed he has given up prostitution as he blasted disgraced Vaz, 62, who was given a six-month Parliamentary ban on Thursday.
He said: “When I met him he told me I should become a lawyer like him and said ‘I’d be f***ing good at it”. So I’ve decided to take his advice so I can help people.”
Vaz made the remark during a taped meeting with the escort that led to the MP being exposed in 2016.
His ban was handed down after telling a parliamentary watchdog two male prostitutes he invited to his London flat were decorators he was hiring.
The Sunday Mirror revealed he paid for sex, asked the men to bring poppers, and offered to cover the cost if cocaine could be supplied.
But Vaz said he did not want any of the Class A drug himself.
The escort – who has begun his legal studies – said married dad-of-two Vaz’s suspension from Parliament was not before time.
“He’s lied, lied and lied again. He has no respect for his constituents, his work or his family,” said the man.
“The worst thing about him is the way he lied to those closest to him – and caused them so much embarrassment by fighting this.
"If I was him I’d have gone somewhere quiet and stayed there.
“He has a wife and children – he’s made things so much worse for them by not admitting what he’s done.”
Leicester East Labour MP Vaz was heading the powerful Home Affairs Select Committee at the time of the scandal – while it was working on the biggest shake-up in prostitution laws in a generation.
This week the Standards Committee concluded there was “compelling evidence” Vaz offered to pay for a class A drug and had paid-for sex in August 2016.
On Friday it emerged he is set to lose the Labour whip after 32 years – but he could remain on the party’s national executive committee.
The escort said: “Labour should get rid of him altogether. It’s disgusting he is still involved. He’s Teflon.”
Vaz even tried to cover his tracks by telling the men he was a washing machine repair man named Jim.
“He lied about everything – even his identity,” said the escort. “He just uses people for his own ends.”
In a scathing report, the watchdog Standards Committee said there was “convincing evidence” Vaz – a solicitor before he was elected in 1987 – was “evasive or unhelpful” during an investigation into his conduct by Commons standards commissioners Kathryn Hudson and Kathryn Stone.
A statement on Vaz’s website “vigorously” rejected this allegation.
He has since said he is being treated for a serious mental health condition.
