
# Boy, 2, chokes on lollipop

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:27:18+00:00**

Author: **Edd Reyes**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/boy-2-chokes-lollipop)

Liam Ezekiel Mago, of No. 168 Ascano St., Malibay was rushed to San Juan De Dios Hospital but was declared dead by attending physician Dr. Cesar Niel Siquia who extracted the lollipop from the victim’s throat.
However, Dr. Siquia noticed that the victim’s anus was open which prompted him to ask the police to subject the cadaver of the boy to an autopsy to preclude foul play committed.
Due to Dr. Siquia’s findings, elements of Pasay Police Station Investigation and Detective Management Branch (SIDMB) placed Leopoldo Corcino, Jr. 28, jeepney driver under investigation on suspicion that he raped the victim.
Corsino denied the accusation and told Pasay City police chief Col. Bernard Yang that he was resting inside his rented room past 7 p.m. when the victim asked him to open his lollipop.
After a minute, he said he heard someone vomiting outside his room and upon checking saw the boy choking and blood oozing from his nose and mouth.
Corsino said he immediately rushed the boy to the barangay hall to help him rush the victim to the nearest hospital.
At around 10 a.m. yesterday, Southern Police District (SPD) Medico-Legal Officer Maj. Reah Cornelio said the victim died of asphyxia by choking and the opened anus hole normally occurrs  when the muscles of the deceased person relax.
Col Yang ordered the release from police custody of Corsino after the parents of the victim accepted the autopsy report that there is no foul play in the death of their son.
