
# Nicolaides: Post-secondary sector needs to learn efficiency, frugality

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:49:53+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/nicolaides-post-secondary-sector-needs-to-learn-efficiency-frugality?utm_source=Academica+Top+Ten&utm_campaign=c52917ae6f-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2019_11_06_06_26&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_b4928536cf-c52917ae6f-47759561)

Alberta’s higher education system has a problem and we need to take bold action now to create stronger universities and colleges.
As the MacKinnon panel clearly demonstrates, Alberta’s post-secondary system can be more efficient. It is possible for us to reduce costs and increase access at the same time. Other provinces have shown it can be done, so can we. Budget 2019 begins the process of transforming our system to make it sustainable for generations to come.
Alberta taxpayers heavily subsidize the cost of going to university. As it stands, students contribute just 20 per cent to the cost of their education, while taxpayers contribute 50 per cent. Under our tuition changes, this mix will change to 25 cent and 45 cent, respectively.
Alberta spends $36,500 per full-time equivalent while British Columbia spends $31,300 ($5,200 less); Ontario spends $21,500 ($15,000 less); and Quebec spends $25,800 ($10,700 less). If we spent at the same rate as British Columbia, we would save over $700 million per year. Alberta needs to balance its need for delivering world-class education while also ensuring taxpayer dollars are used effectively.
Alberta has a critical and long-standing over-spending problem. The province spent over $5.6 billion on post-secondary education in 2018-19 — nearly 11 per cent of provincial operational expenditures. Over the last decade, funding has grown 106 per cent, while enrolment has only grown 21 per cent. Despite this massive investment, we still have one of the lowest participation rates in the country at 17 per cent, and nine out of our 26 institutions have completion rates below 60 per cent. Albertans are not graduating and not getting jobs.
Now here’s what’s really disturbing: Alberta’s spending on administration. We spend $8,372 per full-time student, where British Columbia spends $4,233 and Ontario spends $4,910. Surely, university administration can look at its own expenses to find savings.
The NDP froze tuition for five years, limiting our institutions’ ability to grow revenue and expand programs. It also failed in its attempt to expand access for students. The NDP has made an outrageous claim that students would see costs climb up to $4,500. This is false. Even if institutions choose to hit the tuition cap, each year for the next three years, tuition will increase by approximately $400 per year, keeping it in-line with the Canadian average and affordable.
Increasing the interest rate on student loans to a very modest prime plus one brings us in line with other jurisdictions. The six-month grace period on interest payments when students leave post-secondary remains in place and borrowers will still benefit from the Repayment Assistance Plan. Beginning in November, the federal government will reduce its interest rate on Canada student loans by 2.5 per cent, minimizing the impact on our borrowers.
To increase access, our government has provided $1 million to help youth in care access post-secondary education and $2 million for students with developmental disabilities. We created a new scholarship, invested $10 million to Women Building Futures, over $6 million annually to CAREERS: Next Generation and we have committed an additional $50 million for student loans.
We are living through some very challenging times. After years of out-of-control spending, the NDP set our province on a path to over $100 billion in debt in just a few years’ time. Billions will be spent on debt interest payments to bankers and bondholders, money that should be going to services for Albertans. Indeed, unless we get our spending and debt under control, students today will pay the price of a fiscal crisis through future tax hikes.
That is why Budget 2019 is a balanced plan to create jobs, grow the economy and protect vital services. Alberta’s future depends on having one of the most highly skilled and well-educated workforces in the world. That is why clear direction is needed with new approaches to ensure the necessary innovation and collaboration occurs. That system-wide direction hasn’t existed for our campuses. But no longer, we will take bold action because Albertans have the right to demand and expect better.

        Demetrios Nicolaides is Alberta’s minister of advanced education.
      
