
# Anger at cuts to drug rehab beds in Glasgow as funding to abstinence-based services slashed

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark McGivern, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/mark-mcgivern/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/drugs-charity-chief-slams-glasgow-20784728)

The head of a drugs recovery charity has slammed Scotland’s largest local authority for cutting back on abstinence-based services at a time of crisis.
Phoenix Futures was one of four charities to get funding until a restructure by Glasgow City Council saw their cash support cut.
The council claims its latest move towards community-based programmes was in response to demand but bodies offering abstinence residential care claim little was done to place the right clients in beds that then lay unfilled.
Phoenix director Jim Armstrong said the approach saw abstinence beds cut from 55 to 14.
 
He said: “The Government is declaring that there is a Scottish public health emergency but when funding is being cut that is the opposite of an emergency response.
“Residential, abstinence-based rehab is reducing at an alarming rate, particularly for the most vulnerable people who don’t have secure housing and can’t engage with community solutions.
“Our rehab gives people a place of safety to get treatment organised around their needs and at their pace. It would seem that this would be a thing to invest in at a time of crisis, not chop it by 30 per cent in the past year.”
Prevailing academic thought leans towards harm reduction, with a reliance on opiate replacement, mainly by methadone, as often the best means of tackling the drug deaths that hit 1187 last year, the worst rate in Europe.
But the Scottish Government has stressed that a broad range of patient-centred services should be readily available.
Armstrong said: “In Glasgow the residential rehab budget was £2.25million but it’s gone down to £1.5million and £500,000 has gone to abstinence-based residential rehab.”
As well as Phoenix Futures, other charities have suffered. The Mungo Foundation’s Cothrom Eile service in Govan has also been hit despite being in the First Minister’s constituency, one of the most drug-blighted communities in Scotland.
It is closing this week.
Glasgow’s Health and Social Care Partnership said: “We are modernising Glasgow’s drug and alcohol addiction services to provide treatments when and where service users need them most, within a care path that improves outcomes for people at different stages of recovery.
"This includes offering more community-based treatment.
“This follows a review which included people with personal (lived) experience of addiction who were also part of the formal tender evaluation process which identified providers to create two new residential services.
 
“Turning Point will provide a 16-bed stabilisation treatment service and Crossreach will provide a 14-bed abstinence-based treatment service.
"The service redesign also reflects the lack of demand for existing residential models – Phoenix Futures occupancy for the past 12 months was 53 per cent.
"More effective and shorter treatment programmes will result in an increased number of residential recovery placements being available.”
●Tomorrow: Scotland’s rehab hospital full of Dutch patients despite our drugs deaths being worst in the world.
