
# Rangers star Alfredo Morelos channels inner John McEnroe as he prepares for Betfred Cup semi final

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:13:43+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-star-alfredo-morelos-channels-20787884)

Alfredo Morelos and his Rangers team mates will be firmly focused on hitting the net in Sunday's Betfred Cup semi final against Hearts.
But as preparations for the visit to the national stadium picked up on Friday, the complete opposite was true as Steven Gerrard 's troops enjoyed some light-hearted preparation at the Hummel Training Centre.
They swapped the football pitch for the tennis court and a session of head tennis to stay sharp for the visit to the national stadium.
Morelos, as always, was in the thick of the action and didn't look too pleased when a decision went against his side at Auchenhowie, pulling off his best "you cannot be serious!" expression.
He was soon smiling again though as he smashed home a winner for his team.
The Colombian was back in the headlines on Friday after broaching the subject of a January transfer out of Ibrox with media in his homeland.
The 23-year-old striker, who took his season tally to 18 with a double at Ross County on Wednesday, has clubs circling ahead of the winter window with Crystal Palace having him watched last month.
The interview, with Blu Radio, will have unsettled adoring Rangers fans ahead of the midway point in the season. But Steven Gerrard has all but written off any chance of the star man leaving before the end of the season.

        Rangers training 1/11/2019 View gallery
      
Elsewhere at training on Friday and Scott Arfield was centre of attention as he celebrated his 31st birthday.
The forward was back in the starting line-up at County in midweek and will be eager to hold onto his position for the trip to Hampden.
Glen Kamara was full of smiles as the midfielder makes a full recovery from the illness that struck him down a week ago.
The Finn's return to fitness adds to Gerrard's midfield headache with Ryan Jack in imperious form and Steven Davis still to come back into the fold after sitting out in Dingwall.
Allan McGregor took part in a light session as he looks to win his fitness fight for Sunday. The keeper sat out in Dingwall after picking up a knock in the win over Motherwell last weekend.
"He is improving," said Gerrard. "He is better than 50-50 at the moment so we hope in the coming days that he continues to improve but he has a good chance."
Borna Barisic will be fit after being taken off against County as a precaution.
