
# Watch Dean Smith's pre-Liverpool Aston Villa press conference

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jonny Bonell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/watch-dean-smiths-pre-liverpool-17184032)

Aston Villa welcome Premier League leaders Liverpool to Villa Park tomorrow (Saturday).
Dean Smith’s men will be looking for a fourth win since their return to the top flight, while the Reds are looking to extend their unbeaten run at the start of the season.
Liverpool are already six points clear of nearest challengers Manchester City, having dropped points in just one game this season – a draw away to Manchester United.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Villa will hope to be the second side to take points off them this season, and we will be hearing from Smith this afternoon ahead of the game.
Injuries, team news, latest form, Jurgen Klopp, Liverpool and much more will all be on the agenda today - and you can watch it all in the video above.
