
# Iconic Edinburgh institution Gorgie City Farm shuts for good after funding woes

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:11:05+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Russell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jennifer-russell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/iconic-edinburgh-institution-gorgie-city-20789795)

An iconic Edinburgh institution has announced its shock closure after funding troubles - resulting in 18 job loses.
The much-loved Gorgie City Farm has called in liquidators to wind up the 40-year-old organistation .
The charity cares for a wide range of animals which are used to promote environmental sustainability, community development, and social inclusion for disadvantaged young people and adults.
Gorgie City Farm operates from a site in the west of Edinburgh and has been a fun family day-out for Scots over the last four decades.
A total of 18 jobs will be lost as a result of the decision, Edinburgh Live reports.
The farm is home to a variety of animals including sheep, pigs, ducks, geese and chickens who will all be rehomed.
In a statement the organisation said: "The trustees have reached the responsible decision to wind up the charity with regret after exploring all options open to them in the face of a tough funding climate.
"It is always difficult when people lose their jobs through no fault of their own and we will now undertake to act as efficiently and sensitively as possible to provide support in matters concerning staff and volunteers.
 
"The welfare of the animals being cared for at Gorgie City Farm is equally important and they will be well looked after until new homes are found for them.”
As well as being a visitor attraction, it is also a working farm and provides assisted volunteering experience for hundreds of people each year who face barriers to employment.
Gorgie City Farm has welcomed around 200,000 visitors a year since it was saved from closure in 2016 after a successful crowdfunding appeal raised in excess of £100,000.
In July this year the Queen visited the farm during a visit to Scotland.
