
# Luigi's Mansion 3 makes a successful sales debut in the UK Charts

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Moyse**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/luigi-s-mansion-3-makes-a-successful-sales-debut-in-the-uk-charts-571398.phtml)

Luigi's Mansion 3 may not have succeeded in knocking Activision's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare off of the top of the UK Charts, but the spooky-ooky title has still been a huge success, with the Switch release proving to be Nintendo's biggest launch title of 2019 so far.As reported by GamesIndustry.biz, physical sales of Luigi's new adventure were 140% higher than its 3DS predecessor, with the new sequel also outperforming both The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening and Super Mario Maker 2 (though it should be noted Luigi's Mansion 3 did get an extra day of sales, having launched on a Thursday to coincide with Halloween.) As is usually the case, the launch of a new Switch title brought a small sales boost to most other major Switch releases.Elsewhere in the charts, Obsidian's The Outer Worlds still sits comfortably in the Top Ten, as does Ubisoft's fan-mauled Ghost Recon: Breakpoint. Disney Classic Games: Aladdin & The Lion King made a quiet debut at number 12, while 2K Games' maligned WWE 2K20 began its descent, dropping from number 3 to number 14.Modern Warfare is likely to remain the game to beat for some time. The upcoming Pokemon Sword and Shield has the opportunity and ability to do so, though it will be hampered in its efforts to reach number 1 by having its sales split into two separate releases.
U.K. video game sales chart w/e: November 2, 2019(Chart reflects in-store physical sales only)1. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare - Activision2. Luigi's Mansion 3 - Nintendo3. FIFA 20 - Electronic Arts4. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe - Nintendo5. The Outer Worlds - Private Division6. Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Breakpoint - Ubisoft7. Ring Fit Adventure - Nintendo8. Plants Vs. Zombies: Battle for Neighborville - Electronic Arts9. Grand Theft Auto V - Take 210. MediEvil - Sony Interactive EntertainmentU.K. video game charts [UKie]
