
# Dubai: BTSE Exchange Launches Monero (XMR) Futures Contracts

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:56+00:00**

Author: **Aisshwarya Tiwari**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/dubai-btse-exchange-monero-xmr-futures-contracts/)


        Dubai-based cryptocurrency financial products exchange, BTSE, on October 31, 2019, announced the launch of 
        the 
        Monero (XMR) futures 
        contracts.
      
While Bitcoin (BTC) futures have become a common occurrence in the rapidly spreading cryptospace, altcoin futures contracts – especially those based on privacy-focused cryptocurrencies – are usually a rare phenomenon.
Marking a departure from this trend is Dubai-based exchange platform BTSE which has listed the world’s largest privacy-focused digital token by market cap – Monero – for trade with six other cryptocurrencies and eight fiat currencies. BTSE has enabled trading for Monero futures contracts, making it one of the first and only exchanges in the world to offer such a product, the exchange claims.
The exchange’s official blog post reads in part:
Notably, BTSE customers will now have the option to post any of the supported currencies as collateral for trades and choose the currency they’d like to receive their payout in. The exchange also offers up to 100x leverage on Monero futures for traders with a large appetite for risk, the post adds.
The exchange hopes to bring extra liquidity to the XMR digital token by the introduction of a financial product that helps investors speculate its price. For the uninitiated, a futures contract is a standardized contract between two parties in which a share or a commodity is bought or sold at a predetermined price at a specified time in the future.
Interested investors can trade Monero futures contracts on BTSE’s spot and futures market by signing up here.
Privacy-focused cryptocurrencies like Monero, Zcash, are generally viewed through a negative lens by regulators the world over. The financial watchdogs fear that such privacy-focused digital tokens are a perfect instrument for criminals to carry out nefarious and illicit activities without leaving any digital trail.
However, with the introduction of XMR futures, one would be inclined to believe that regulators are slowly but surely warming up to the idea of viewing digital assets as something more than a crime-enabling instrument.
BTCManager reported on October 22, 2019, how Heath Tarbert, the Chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), had hinted at the arrival of Ether (ETH) futures contracts sometime in 2020.
