
# Diggin’ Deep on UFC Moscow: Zabit vs. Kattar - Prelims preview

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dayne Fox**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/7/20949160/diggin-deep-ufc-moscow-zabit-vs-kattar-prelims-mma-preview)

UFC Moscow represents another Eurasian card beginning in the AM’s for those in North America. You already know what the quality of the card is as I – and countless other MMA writers – have stated on many occasions. Most of the prelims are filler as the UFC attempts to sort through its bloated roster to figure out whose going to be a player for the organization in the near future. That doesn’t mean there aren’t well-matched fights. That doesn’t mean there won’t be entertaining contests either. But are you missing much by choosing to do something else with your Saturday morning? Probably not. Nonetheless, I got all the shit-eating wild men covered who can’t get enough MMA.
The prelims begin on ESPN+ at 11:00 AM ET/8:00 AM PT on Saturday.
It might be going too far to say Ankalaev has been disappointment in his UFC run, but he certainly hasn’t lived up to expectations. A burly, methodical specimen, Ankalaev has relied heavily on being the bigger and stronger man in the cage, an advantage that he’ll hold again against the stout Lungiambula. While that has generally worked out well enough for him, Ankalaev isn’t so big that this approach will work for him as he moves forward. Plus, it isn’t like his wrestling, supposed to be one of his bigger strengths, has been overly effective against the lower ends of the division thus far. I still like Ankalaev’s prospects to be a long-term mainstay at this rate, but I can’t ignore the flagrant red flags being waved in my face with regards to his abilities to become a contender.
At 5’8”, it’s hard to see Lungiambula making a serious push into the top ten, much less becoming a contender. Nonetheless, the short South African has plenty of power in his stout frame and is extremely explosive. To his credit, he knows how to use his stature to his advantage, getting the necessary leverage to execute his judo throws and trips where he can dish out his vicious GnP. However, the biggest concern with Lungiambula is the lack of quality competition under his belt. Ankalaev may appear to be tentative at times, but he’s also faced several opponents he can’t just mow over with his physical gifts as Lungiambula has done. Lungiambula is a good athlete, but he’s not going to be able to do that to Ankalaev.
Ankalaev is a sizeable favorite and rightfully so. While not as explosive as Lungiambula, he’s a gifted athlete nonetheless with a disciplined approach… sometimes too disciplined. Given Lungiambula’s lack of size, I’d expect Ankalaev to effectively implement his wrestling to negate Lungiambula’s opportunities on the feet and utilize his own physical brand of GnP. Ankalaev via TKO of RD2

        View all 5 stories
      
