
# Transfer Update On 'Bale To China' Links

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:28:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/transfer-update-on-gareth-bale-to-china-links/666460)

With Real Madrid superstar Gareth Bale said to have been close to a mega-money move to China in the latest window, the Welsh forward's agent has now provided an update on the reported move.

        
          Read: 10 Players Once Dubbed The 'Next Ronaldo'
        
      
Following a spate of niggling injuries, Bale has seemingly fallen out of favour with Los Blancos once again after reclaiming his spot under manager Zinedine Zidane earlier this season.
The relationship between the Wales talisman and the French manager is now reported to have reached breaking point, which has led to speculation that Bale could move to a club in China in January, after seeing a deal fall through at the beginning of the season.
However, Jonathan Barnett, who is Bale's long-time agent, has since dismissed the rumours, claiming that the former Tottenham Hotspur winger is happy in Spain.
"Gareth is delighted to play in Madrid," Barnett said, as reported by The Independent.
"China? Don't believe everything you hear."

        
          Choose the DM for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt! 
        
      
Zidane recently also hit back at reports that his relationship with Bale had soured, and insisted the 30-year-old remains an important part of his squad.
"I don't think he ever talks about leaving. When he's available, he trains and plays. He's played a number of games," Zidane said.
"I have to say we have a good relationship. He's here with us, he trains well and works well when he's available.
"He's not available at the moment because he's got an injury, that's all.
"The problem is, there is a lot of talk about lots of different things. The important thing is that he's ready when he's 100%.
"He's a good player, you know what kind of player he is. At the moment, he's not available. You're all trying to create something that isn't there in our relationship."

        Click through the gallery below for images of other footballers who moved to China!
      
Bale joined Real for a then world record fee of €100 million (R1.6 billion) in 2013, and has since scored 104 goals in 238 appearances for the LaLiga giants.
