
# McStrike: Largest Ever Walk-Out Planned as Workers Demand £15 Per Hour, 'Respect and Dignity'

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:54:07+00:00**

Author: **by Mohamed Elmaazi**

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911061077230538-mcstrike-largest-ever-walk-out-planned-as-workers-demand-15-per-hour-respect-and-dignity/)


        The union representing numerous McDonald's workers has notified multiple stores to expect strikes over better pay and treatment, as part of an international day of action for fast food worker's rights, on 12 November 2019.
      
The Bakers Food and Allied Workers' Union (BFAWU) says this will be the largest ever for McDonald's workers. Workers involved in the "McStrike" are demanding a living wage, job stability and security, and to be 'treated with respect and dignity', in a battle which will see every day people go up against one of the world's largest corporations.
The BFAWU informed six McDonald's stores that their workers will go on strike on 12 November 2019. This will be part of "an international day of action for fast food workers’ rights", according spokespersons for the union. Most McDonald's workers are not unionised, a union spokesperson explained, but the number is growing everyday and workers can always join the strike on the day.
A union spokesperson listed the worker's demands as:
McDonald's: "We are Extremely Disappointed"
In a written statement the anti-union fast-food giant said:
The union spokesman in his turn recognised that the percentage of employees who are currently unionised was small. But he pushed back saying:
He added that, "These workers are standing up for McDonald's workers everywhere". The spokesperson also said that, "It's fundamentally untrue that" that McDonald's workers didn't strike in October. He questioned how McDonald's counted strikers noting that if a manager discovers that workers will strike at his branch he can simply remove their shift from the schedule and then claim that a worker wasn't due to work anyway. 
When it was put to the union spokesperson that McDonald's said it pays, "well above the government minimum wage" he noted that it's "still not enough to live on". "Fundamentally", he said, "workers are asking for a wage they can actually live on".
McDonald’s also argued that the 40 hour guaranteed contracts demanded by the BFAWU is "something we already offer - but has been chosen by very few of our people". They said:
But the union spokesperson said he didn't recognise the picture painted by McDonald's.
"That’s news to many, many McDonald’s workers", he said. "A lot of McDonald’s workers I have spoken to have not gotten the ‘guaranteed hours’ that they would like, so for McDonald's to say that workers have opted not to have them is inaccurate", he said.
He explained that there is a process workers must go through:
"Finally, it's all still at the discretion of the manager", he concluded.
Melissa Evans, 32, a mother who works at a McDonald’s in Wandsworth Town said:
The London McDonald’s stores where BFAWU members have decided to strike are: Wandsworth Town, Downham, Balham, Deptford, Catford, and Crayford.
