
# UW to pay $850K to family of windsurfer killed on Lake Mendota

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:00:42+00:00**

Author: **Tabatha Wethal, Stephanie Fryer**

Original: [CHANNEL3000](https://www.channel3000.com/news/uw-to-pay-850k-to-family-of-windsurfer-killed-on-lake-mendota/1139692266)

MADISON, Wis. - The University of Wisconsin-Madison will pay $850,000 to the family of the man who was killed by a boat while windsurfing on Lake Mendota in 2017, the university confirmed Wednesday. 
Yu Chen, 43, of Madison, died on May 31 when he was struck by a UW Lifesaving Station boat while he was windsurfing. 
On Wednesday, university spokesman John Lucas said the university had reached a settlement Friday on the wrongful death lawsuit filed by Chen's family and attorney Jay Urban.
The family's representative, Gang Chen, said the state did the right thing by settling the case in a statement provided by the Chen family's attorney.
"This terrible tragedy should not have happened if the boaters paid attention that day, as they should have. We decided to settle with the State so that Yu's elderly mom does not need to be tortured by having to go through lengthy litigation," Chen said.
"We have given an opportunity to the State to take measures to improve safety on the lake," Chen said.
Chen was teaching a windsurfing lesson at around 6 p.m. when he was struck by the powerboat and knocked into the lake, where his body was chopped by the powerboat propellers until he died.  
"Yu Chen should not have been struck and killed that day and of all things by a boat operated by the state and dedicated to safety and preserving lives on Lake Mendota," Urban said.
"His tragic death must serve as an urgent wake-up call to improve the operation of the UW Life Safety fleet and for every powerboater to be keenly aware at all times of others out on our lakes."
Three people on the rescue boat tried to help Chen, but he was pronounced dead at the scene.
In a statement, Lucas said Chen's death was a tragedy.
"We disagree with some of the characterizations of the incident in the statement released by Attorney Urban," Lucas said. "However, we believe reaching a resolution was in everyone's interest and will allow those involved to move forward."
In June 2018, Dane County District Attorney Ismael R. Ozanne said there is no criminal liability for the staff involved in the crash that resulted in Chen's death.
Chen was born in China and studied nuclear physics at Peking University, and received his PH.D. from the University of Michigan, according to his obituary. He moved to Madison in 2007. Urban said Chen worked as a senior medical physicist at an area biomedical firm and volunteered with the Hoofers Sailing Club at the UW Memorial Union. 
His family described him as a "very kind and genuine man. He was deeply dedicated to his work and helping others," in his obituary. 
Urban said that in memory of Chen, the family had donated a bench in James Madison Park on Lake Mendota. 
