
# Buy Dabur India; target of Rs 550: ICICI Direct

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Broker Research**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/stocks/buy-dabur-india-target-of-rs-550-icici-direct-4613811.html)


        ICICI Direct's research report on Dabur India
      
Dabur’s consolidated revenue grew 4.1% YoY to Rs 2,212 crore as domestic business grew 4.9% fully led by volume growth of 4.8% YoY. International business posted constant currency (CC) growth of 3.2% during the quarter, mostly impacted by 35% de-growth in Nepal business due to implementation of vehicle and consignment tracking system (VCTS). Gross margins expanded 142 bps YoY to 50.8%, driving EBITDA margin expansion of 92 bps YoY to 22.1%.

        Outlook
      
We expect Dabur to generate revenue, PAT growth at 9.7%, 12.1% CAGR, respectively, on the back of strong volume growth of 6% in FY19-21E. Hence, we maintain BUY rating on Dabur with a revised target price of Rs 550.

        
          For all recommendations report, click here
        
      

        
          Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
        
      

        Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
        Read More
      
