
# Apple TV+ Guide: Here are all the Apple TV shows and movies available now

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:56:18+00:00**

Author: **Benjamin Mayo**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/06/apple-tv-plus-tv-shows-movies-guide/)

Apple TV+ offers exclusive Apple original TV shows and movies in 4K HDR quality. You can watch across all of your screens and pick up where you left off on any device. Apple TV+ costs $4.99 per month. Here’s every Apple original television show and movie available now on Apple TV+, as well as the latest trailers …
Apple TV+ content is available exclusively through the Apple TV app. You can watch on your Apple TV set-top box, iPhone, or iPad as you might expect.
The TV app is also available on other platforms like Amazon Fire TV, Roku, and even the web at tv.apple.com. Read this post for more details on everywhere you can watch Apple TV.
Apple TV+ offers original comedies, dramas, thrillers, documentaries, and kids shows. However, unlike most other streaming services, Apple TV+ does not include a back catalog of any kind.
For your $4.99/month subscription, you can watch all of Apple’s originals — as listed below. You can download to watch offline too. Right now, the library of Apple originals in terms of raw numbers is quite small. Expect to see the Apple TV+ library grow quickly, as Apple has committed to adding new originals every month.
       
This psychological thriller follows a family who are so stricken with grief in the aftermath of a miscarriage, they hire a mysterious nanny to care for a substitute baby doll.
