
# Meghan Markle Dresses in a Blue Coat and Khaki Trench for Two Events in Two Days

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29722088/meghan-markle-blue-coat-khaki-trench-remembrance-day-event-outfits/)

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry did their first two joint events since they returned from their royal tour of southern Africa. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex had a private engagement yesterday where they visited army families. Meghan wore a khaki trench and white bow blouse to that event.
The couple shared footage of it on their joint Instagram, writing, "Yesterday, The Duke and Duchess surprised their neighbors in Windsor at a coffee morning for military families in a community centre located in the heart of the Army housing estate. Every year during the month of November we pause to remember and honor all those who have served their country here in the UK, across the Commonwealth and around the world. Their Royal Highnesses also wanted to show support for the families of service personnel who are currently deployed overseas."
"During the visit yesterday, Their Royal Highnesses met with young families who shared their experiences as parents and as couples who are often apart from their loved ones for months at a time. A reminder that a life of service does not simply describe the person wearing the uniform, but the entire family.
They announced on their account they will be attending more events: "As we lead up to Remembrance Sunday, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex will join Her Majesty The Queen and other Members of the Royal Family at various commemoration events, including the Festival of Remembrance at the Royal Albert Hall and the Cenotaph."
This morning, the couple planted crosses in the Field of Remembrance at Westminster Abbey. Harry was in uniform while the Duchess of Sussex wore a navy coat, navy fascinator, and a red poppy pin. This is Meghan's first time at this event:
They will join Kate Middleton and Prince William this weekend for the four's first joint event in months, Remembrance Sunday.
