
# Caroline Flack's ex Andrew Brady takes a break amid Lewis Burton engagement rumours

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:49:41+00:00**

Author: **Brogan-Leigh Hurst**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/caroline-flacks-ex-andrew-brady-20832013)

Caroline Flack 's ex fiance Andrew Brady took time out to enjoy a break with family friends as gossip about her rumoured engagement continue to swirl.
Celebrity Big Brother star Andrew admitted the holiday was well-needed as he took a few days off.
On his way to a camping trip with a pal, Andrew, 28, posted an Instagram video explaining it's been "nice" and sometimes you have to take time out.
Speaking about his time away, Andrew said: "Had a few days off - enjoyed some family time with the Broerens' and the Crows'.
"So I've actually seen some family-friends and a friend of mine and his family.
"It's been nice, a few days off. Sometimes you just have to, just take a break from it all."
 
Andy's mini-break comes just as his ex Cazza, 40, sparked engagement rumours with her toyboy model boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27.
The self-confessed cougar has been romancing Lewis since the beginning of the summer.
Caroline was spied sporting a flashy diamond ring in London on Wednesday and has since taken to the Gram to show off her dazzling jewel.
   
In the snap, the presenter flaunted a huge rock on her wedding hand which sparked speculation she had got engaged to her man.
The diamond ring was among her stack of rings on her left hand.
Mirror Online previously contacted Caroline Flack's representative for comment.
A representative for Caroline said the star is "100% not engaged" but she and Lewis are "still very much together".
Caroline and Andrew announced their engagement in May 2018 after two months of dating.
But then their relationship fell apart and they ended things at the end of last year.
After things didn't go to plan with the Flack, he jetted off to Australia to start a new life Down Under.
He landed himself a job in Sydney in January and turned to an online group for backpackers to try and land himself a job.
