
# Messi's Ballon d'Or Advantage Over Ronaldo Revealed?

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:02:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/lionel-messi-s-ballon-d-or-advantage-over-cristiano-ronaldo-revealed/666728)

With Lionel Messi having already beat Cristiano Ronaldo to FIFA's The Best Men's Player of the Year award, the Argentine seemingly has an advantage over his longstanding rival in the 2019 Ballon d'Or race.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see Messi's Ballon d'Or wins.
        
      
The Argentine has started a late surge for this year's Golden Ball, scoring six goals in his past five appearances for FC Barcelona, while assisting another three strikes too.
As a result, reports in Spain suggested that Messi might have taken the lead in the race for the 2019 Ballon d'Or, the winner of which will be announced on 2 December.
Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now 
However, it seems Messi has another slight advantage, at least when looking at historical wins of the Ballon d'Or and The Best FIFA Men's Player awards.
Since 2004, the player who has won FIFA's gong also claimed France Football's award (see table below), with the current version of FIFA's The Best Men's Player prize previously known as the FIFA World Player of the Year award.
The two awards merged in 2010, when the two football entities collaborated to award the FIFA Ballon d'Or for six years.
In 2004, Andriy Shevchenko and Ronaldinho were the last two players who were regarded as the world's best in the same year, and since then, in the past 14 years, whoever won the FIFA award also lifted the Golden Ball.

        
          Read: Ronaldo Extends Ballon d'Or Record Over Messi
        
      
Messi was named The Best FIFA Men's Player last month, and could lift a record-breaking sixth Ballon d'Or in December. Ronaldo, too, could win it on a sixth occasion, but this would be the first time since 2004 that there were two different winners of the main awards in football.
