
# Who Is City's Big CV Dutch Target?

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/siyagobhoza/cape-town-city-are-believed-to-be-targeting-jan-olde-riekerink-but-who-is-the-dutch-head-coach/666769)

As previously reported by the Siya crew, Cape Town City are believed to be targeting Jan Olde Riekerink, but who is the Dutch head coach?
Following Benni McCarthy’s exit from the club, the Citizens are expected to make an announcement about their new head coach in the coming days, with Siya sources indicating that bringing in a European coach is now a priority for the club.

        
          Read more: Pitso: I Was Benni’s Biggest Fan!
        
      
The source added that Chairman John Comitis wants someone with a Dutch philosophy of football and according to the information made available to the Siya crew, Riekerink has made it on their radar.
Riekerink is a 56-year-old tactician, who is currently a free agent. He began his professional coaching career as the head coach of Ajax Amsterdam back in 1995, where he thereafter coached their U19 and U21 set-ups.
The Dutch-born head coach then left Ajax in 2002 to join up with KAA Gent in Belgium, heading back to the Netherlands with FC Emmen, this before being appointed as the assistant coach to Co Adriaanse at FC Porto.
He then returned to Ajax in 2007 and was appointed as their youth co-ordinator for four years before going back into coaching.
The 56-year-old then spent four years with the Chinese national team’s youth structures, before joining Galatasaray in Turkey, where he was thereafter last on the books of SC Heerenveen in the Netherlands.
It is clear that the coach is well-travelled and is especially experienced in Dutch football, however, will he be able to turn around City’s fortune’s this season, should City look to bring him on board? 

        
          Which coach do you think will be a good fit for City? Let us know in the comment section below. 
        
      
