
# Stoke confident of landing Northern Ireland’s Michael O’Neill as manager

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/07/stoke-northern-ireland-manager-michael-oneill-approach)


        • Stoke understood to be willing to pay wage of up to £1.5m a year • O’Neill could join but still oversee two internationals this month
      
Stoke are increasingly confident of appointing Michael O’Neill as their manager in a deal that would allow the 50-year-old to still take charge of Northern Ireland’s Euro 2020 qualifiers against the Netherlands and Germany. Stoke hope to have O’Neill looking on when they play Barnsley at Oakwell on Saturday.
O’Neill has a contract until 2024 worth £800,000 a year with the Irish Football Association, which confirmed on Thursday it had received an approach from Stoke.
Negotiations are continuing and Stoke may have to pay as much as £1m for O’Neill. Northern Ireland’s games against the Netherlands and Germany on Saturday week and the following Tuesday respectively are also a key point for discussion.
Should O’Neill accept the post, he is likely to be handed a lucrative package, possibly up to £1.5m a year on a long-term contract. Steve Harper, who forms part of the Northern Ireland backroom team, would likely follow O’Neill to England.
“The Irish Football Association has been approached by Stoke who are seeking permission to speak to Michael O’Neill about their vacant manager’s position,” the IFA said.
Stoke sacked Nathan Jones last week and are the bottom of the Championship. An attempt to lure Alex Neil from Preston failed. A number of clubs and the Scotland national team have endured frustrations with regards O’Neill. The former Shamrock manager’s stock soared after guiding Northern Ireland to Euro 2016. They are also likely to earn a playoff berth for next summer’s European Championship.
Tommy Wright, who is in charge of St Johnstone, and the Motherwell manager, Stephen Robinson, would be the early favourites to replace O’Neill at Northern Ireland.
