
# Lampard denies feeling pressure to pick Batshuayi and Giroud at Chelsea

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:41:00+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Steinberg**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/01/frank-lampard-denies-pressure-pick-michy-batshuayi-olivier-giroud-chelsea)


        • Belgium and France coaches complain about lack of games • ‘I have to pick squad for the best of Chelsea,’ Lampard says
      
Frank Lampard has warned Michy Batshuayi and Olivier Giroud that he will not prioritise their international careers over Chelsea’s needs.
Tammy Abraham’s goalscoring exploits have left both strikers in the shade this season, hurting their chances of representing their countries at Euro 2020. Roberto Martínez said during the last international break that Batshuayi needed to play more for Chelsea and the Belgium manager’s France counterpart, Didier Deschamps, has complained about Giroud’s lack of games.
However, Lampard dismissed suggestions that he is under pressure from Martínez and Deschamps, even though Giroud has hinted he could push for a transfer in January to cement his place in the France squad.
“Not at all,” Chelsea’s manager said. “It is difficult for me and it is difficult for them. We both have our jobs, so it doesn’t feature in my thinking. I have to care for all the players. I have to pick the squad as I see it for the best of Chelsea, as they do for their countries.”
Giroud has not started a league game since August and was an unused substitute when Chelsea were knocked out of the Carabao Cup by Manchester United on Wednesday. Lampard is happy to talk to the 33-year-old about his future in January but wants the former Arsenal forward to stay.
Batshuayi has done well recently, coming off the bench to grab Chelsea’s winner against Ajax in the Champions League last month and scoring a fine goal when he started against United. However the 26-year-old is likely to be replaced by Abraham when Chelsea visit Watford on Saturday evening.
N’Golo Kanté, who has a 50-50 chance of being involved when Lampard’s side host Ajax on Tuesday, has not recovered from a groin injury for the trip to Vicarage Road. If Kanté is fit, Lampard will not ask Deschamps not to pick the midfielder for France’s Euro 2020 qualifiers against Albania and Moldova this month.
“I love players playing for their countries,” Lampard said. “It means they are playing well for us. If he is fit and playing for us, then I will happily wave him away and hope he comes back in good health.”
Antonio Rüdiger will not return against Watford. The German defender trained this week but will see a specialist on Monday to discuss a problem in his pelvic area.
