
# Executive Producer Reveals New Crisis on Infinite Earths Logo

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:31:22+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471260-executive-producer-reveals-new-crisis-on-infinite-earths-logo)

A month ahead of its official debut, the hype surrounding Crisis on Infinite Earths is growing faster than ever. The upcoming massive Arrowverse crossover will debut on the CW in December. Executive producer Marc Guggenheim took to Twitter to debut the new Crisis on Infinite Earths logo.
You can check the new logo down below.
The cast for the crossover will consist of characters from Arrow, The Flash, Legends of Tomorrow, Supergirl, Batwoman. This year, it will also feature characters from Black Lightning, the first appearance of any characters from the series to appear in an Arrow-verse show. In addition to Brandon Routh and Tom Welling as Superman, other cast members include Tyler Hoechlin as Superman, Elizabeth Tulloch and Erica Durance as Lois Lane, Jon Cryer as Lex Luthor, Osric Chau as Ryan Choi/The Atom, Stephen Lobo as Jim Corrigan/The Spectre, LaMonica Garrett as both The Monitor and The Anti-Monitor, Tom Cavanagh as Pariah, John Wesley Shipp appearing in an unnamed role, Ashley Scott from the short-lived Birds of Prey series returning as Huntress, with Burt Ward in an unspecified role, and Kevin Conroy appearing as a version of Bruce Wayne from the future (his first time playing the character in live-action).
Crisis on Infinite Earths will start with Supergirl on December 8 and it will conclude with the DC’s Legends of Tomorrow on January 14, 2020. What do you think about the new Crisis logo? Let us know in the comments section below.
