
# FACT CHECK: BJP MP Manoj Tiwari burst firecrackers despite pollution in Delhi?

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:31:14+00:00**

Author: **Times Fact Check**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/times-fact-check/news/fact-check-bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-burst-firecrackers-despite-pollution-in-delhi/articleshow/71919679.cms)


        
          CLAIM
        
      
A photo showing Delhi BJP chief and Lok Sabha MP Manoj Tiwari burning a firework is being shared with a claim that despite rising pollution in Delhi, Tiwari indulged in burning fireworks.
A Facebook page that goes by the name 'I.T & Social Media Cell Congress' shared the photo with a caption in Hindi that loosely translates to, "This is Manoj Tiwari, MP Northeast Delhi. He's busy burning firecrackers. Despite Delhi's current situation, he has no mercy. We feel ashamed that the people of Delhi chose him as an MP."
Below the photo showing Tiwari burning what looks like a firework known popularly as 'Fountain' is a screengrab of a tweet made by Tiwari from his verified Twitter handle. The tweet, in Hindi, translates to, "My eyes are burning in Delhi today. Yours?"
Journalist Shahbaz Ansar tweeted two photos of Tiwari. The first one shows Tiwari wearing a pollution mask and the second one is the same one showing him burning a firework. Sharing these two photos, Ansar said what translates to, "On one hand, Manoj Tiwari observes a fast against pollution, and on the other hand, his twin brother could be seen bursting crackers. May no one get such a useless brother."
The tweet has been liked by over 3,100 Twitter users.

        
          TRUTH
        
      
The photo showing Manoj Tiwari burning a firework is from 2014.

        
          VERIFICATION AND METHODOLOGY
        
      
A simple reverse-image search on the image will lead you to an article published on Daily Pioneer on October 29, 2014, carrying the exact same image.

        
          VERDICT
        
      
Times Fact Check has found that the photo showing Manoj Tiwari burning a firework, that is being shared widely, to be from 2014. Hence, the claim made along with the photo that Tiwari indulged in burning fireworks despite rising pollution in Delhi is false.
