
# Plush 'Grand Designs-style' nursery where babies are being signed up before they're born

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:15:54+00:00**

Author: **Peter Craig**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/plush-grand-designs-nursery-babies-20799174)

This plush new nursery is so in demand that parents are signing their babies to the waiting list before they are even born.
Owner Eleanor Hutton said the nursery in Waltham, Lincolnshire, has been her "forever dream" and has finally become a reality.
The nursery - named Explorosity Education - has its own separate baby lounge, toddler room, Kindergarten and forest school.
Pictures show how the rooms are a match for any Grand Designs-style award-winning property or a five-star hotel accommodation.
Eleanor has indulged her passion for interior design which is matched by her professionalism in Early Years Teaching, reports Grimsby Live .
The baby room is booked until 2021 and one mother has even booked in her baby who hasn't been born yet.
"It has been crazy. We have a waiting list for children who are not yet born and don't yet have a name," she said.
Eleanor and her team look after babies from six weeks right up to the age of eight years. Though generally they are cared for up to the age of four years.
Eleanor, 29, has worked in early years education for 10 years and was formerly a relief manager at a nursery.
She managed a nursery in Scunthorpe from 2011 up until March this year.
"I have always wanted to own my own nursery," she told Grimsby Live.
She has "up-cycled" many items she has treasured for years in the hope of transforming them to become useful activities for children, including wooden boxes that are now a child's kitchen display.
"That is so if a child wants just to sit down and have a cuddle and story read to them there is plenty of opportunity," said Eleanor.
"There are lots of activities for collaboration and communication and children can always look around and see that provides stimulation for their next stage of learning.
"Sustainability is also an important  part of their learning and we want all our children to value the resources around them. We grow our own fruit and vegetables," told Eleanor.
She said: "Our setting promotes 'Hygge' and 'Zen' whereby we create spaces our children can feel safe and relaxed. They can become absorbed within their surroundings fueling their fire for learning.
Even having opened a fortnight ago, the staff have already built up links with the wider Waltham community.
They want the children to have fresh experiences thanks to the activities at Waltham Windmill Museum and the miniature train attraction.
The children will also learn about the local churches and inter-generational links with visits to old folks homes.
"We want them to know they are part of a local community. As well as that we have links to people in Tanzania, Vietnam and New Zealand with whom we exchange letters and see on Skype," she said.
Outdoors they have experts who visit to lead the children with den-building, archery and the wonder of fire pits.
Eleanor said all her staff are trained in meningitis awareness and are First Aid trained.
Details of the new nursery are on the website www.explorosity.co.uk
