
# OnePlus might launch its first-ever smartwatch at the OnePlus 8 launch event

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/oneplus-might-launch-its-first-ever-smartwatch-at-the-oneplus-8-launch-event/)

OnePlus is reportedly planning to bring more competition to the wearable market by bringing its first-ever smartwatch to the market. While the wearable market is very crowded, with Apple and Samsung dominating it, there are plenty of things that OnePlus can work on to make its smartwatch a unique wearable.
After the success of OnePlus smartphones, the company wants to explore new markets — OnePlus’s recent smart television launch is a clear indication of that. And, of course, it wants to go beyond just television sets and smartphones. And after smart TV, the release of a smartwatch is definitely a step in the right direction as it will make the product portfolio of OnePlus more appealing than ever before.
Unfortunately, we don’t have much information about the OnePlus smartwatch, but rumor has it that OnePlus could launch its first-ever smartwatch at the OnePlus 8 launch event. Rumor also has it that the OnePlus smartwatch is going to sport a circular watch face design.
Just for a quick refresher, it’s not the time we’re hearing rumors about a OnePlus smartwatch. The rumors of a OnePlus smartwatch first dropped in 2016, but, unfortunately, we haven’t heard anything from OnePlus thereafter.
Now, after three years, the rumor has made a comeback, but this time around, it seems the company is more ready than ever before to launch a smartwatch.
via Phonearena
