
# 'Why is it okay for Republicans to do it?': Chris Wallace asks how closed-door Benghazi hearings differ from impeachment process

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:01:07+00:00**

Author: **Madison Dibble**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/why-is-it-okay-for-republicans-to-do-it-chris-wallace-asks-how-closed-door-benghazi-investigation-differs-from-impeachment-process)

Fox anchor Chris Wallace questioned White House counselor Kellyanne Conway’s objection to impeachment testimonies being conducted in private.
President Trump and top Republicans have criticized House Democrats, especially House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, over the closed-door impeachment process.
During a Sunday interview on Fox News Sunday, Wallace noted that much of the 2014 and 2015 House Benghazi hearings were conducted behind closed doors and no Republicans were upset with that process. He pressed Conway to justify the double standard of accepting a closed-door process for the Benghazi investigation but not for the impeachment hearings.
“Why is it okay for Republicans, when they are in charge, to conduct hearings, depositions, interviews behind closed doors, but it's unacceptable for Democrats?” Wallace asked.
Conway attempted to deflect the question by highlighting the seriousness of impeaching a president, but Wallace pushed back, noting that four Americans died in the Benghazi attacks.
“Wouldn’t you say that’s pretty important? Wouldn’t you say Benghazi was pretty important?” Wallace questioned. "So, why is it okay for Republicans to do it?"
“The president of the United States has no due process right, no due process rights afforded to him in this whole process,” Conway argued, later adding, “This is not the way that our rule of law, our system of justice, should work for the president or for anyone else.”
