
# Tesla pickup reveal set for November 21

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:31:32+00:00**

Author: **Scott Collie**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/806028/tesla-pickup-reveal-set-for-november-21/)

- shares
Tesla will reveal its electric ute on November 21, as it prepares to take on the Rivian R1T and upcoming pure-electric Ford F-150.
Elon Musk used Twitter to reveal the "Cybertruck" will be unwrapped in Los Angeles, near the SpaceX rocket factory. If that date sounds familiar, it's because Blade Runner references it – and it's smack-bang in the middle of the Los Angeles motor show's media days.
The company has revealed precious few details about its upcoming pickup, but we know it should cost less than US$50,000 ($72,000) and be capable of hauling 136 tonnes, although what that means for real-world tow ratings remains to be seen.
A range between 650km and 800km has been tabled, which hints at a battery significantly larger than 100kWh.
Of course, it remains to be seen if the ute will look anything like the fan-made speculative rendering pictured atop this story. (Source unknown.)
Rivian has positioned itself as a leader in the electric light-commercial space, promising to offer the R1T dual-cab ute in Australia by 2022.
With a range of 643km and claimed towing capacity of 4500kg, the R1T has a towing capabilities north of those offered by conventional internal-combustion dual-cab utes.
Stay tuned for more on the Tesla ute in the lead-up to its launch.
11
nextpreviousTesla pickup reveal set for November 21
