
# WATCH: Prince Harry's swoon-worthy response to a fan calling him handsome will make your day

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:50:24+00:00**

Author: **Bashiera Parker (@bparks_)**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/Royal-News/watch-prince-harrys-swoon-worthy-response-to-a-fan-calling-him-handsome-will-make-your-day-20191104)

Cape Town – Before celebrating with the Springboks following their Rugby World Cup win this weekend, Prince Harry met with Paralympic hopefuls in Tokyo.
At the Para Arena training centre – a fully accessible venue to provide equal opportunities to the local community – the Duke of Sussex observed as students participated in wheelchair boccia, powerlifting, and of course, rugby.
"This was especially meaningful to His Royal Highness, who five years ago founded @WeAreInvictusGames – which uses the power of sport to inspire recovery and support rehabilitation of wounded veterans who have physical or mental injuries," explains the Sussex Royal Instagram account.
"Japan is the first-ever country to host two Paralympic Games! Next year Tokyo will welcome over 4 000 athletes from around the world, creating a huge opportunity to help celebrate and promote diversity."
Before leaving the centre, His Royal Highness greeted and posed with schoolchildren who were clearly taken by the duke – and the precious exchange was captured on camera.
According to Harper's BAZAAR, in a brief moment, one of Harry's very many admirers caught his attention when they commented on how "handsome" the real-life prince was.
"I'm married," Harry quipped, playfully holding up his left hand and pointing to his ring finger.
The crowd erupted in laughter before he made his exit and though Meghan stayed home with Archie on this particular trip, we're guessing she did too after seeing his swoon-worthy response.

        SEE THE SWEET MOMENT HERE:
      
