
# Pro-Beijing politician stabbed in Hong Kong amid escalating violence

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:25:34+00:00**

Author: **Sophia Yan**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/pro-beijing-politician-stabbed-hong-052534171.html)

A knife-wielding assailant injured a pro-Beijing lawmaker and his assistant in Hong Kong, as tensions worsen with protests nearing the start of a sixth continuous month. 
Lawmaker Junius Ho was wounded in his chest, while his assistant’s hand was injured. The two of them, along with the alleged attacker – arrested by police – were all taken to the hospital following the assault, a police source confirmed to The Telegraph. 
The Hong Kong government condemned the attack, saying it wouldn’t “tolerate any acts of violence,” and called for the public to remain “peaceful and rational, and to respect each other when expressing their opinions,” according to a statement posted online. 
Hong Kong is grappling with its worst political crisis since the former British colony was returned to Beijing rule in 1997. Protests kicked off over a now-withdrawn extradition proposal, but have widened over fears that Chinese Communist Party control is eroding long-enjoyed freedoms in Hong Kong.
Clashes between protesters and police have become increasingly violent, polarising the city, with leading figures on both sides being physically ambushed. 
Mr Ho has been targeted by protesters since July after footage circulated of him laughing and shaking hands with suspected gang members who attacked peaceful demonstrators in Yuen Long subway station on their way home.
Activists desecrated his parents’ graves shortly after, and calls to protest at a race course forced Mr Ho to pull his horse, Hong Kong Bet, from competing earlier this autumn. 
Last month, Mr Ho was also stripped of an honorary law degree by his alma mater in the UK, Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge, following an investigation. “Mr Ho’s conduct since he was honoured has caused increasing concern,” the university said. 
In a video circulating online of Wednesday’s attack, a man approached Mr Ho, who was campaigning in the Tuen Mun neighbourhood for upcoming local elections, and asked to take a picture together, before taking out what appeared to be a knife from his bag and stabbing the lawmaker. 
The man, who called Mr Ho “human scum,” was quickly subdued by onlookers. 
Mr Ho has released online a video of himself in a hospital gown, talking about the injury and threat he faced earlier in the morning, in addition to a statement on social media that the wound he sustained wasn't life-threatening.
