
# Will selecting overseas-based players become a trend after South Africa's compelling triumph?

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:55:12+00:00**

Author: **Liam Heagney**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/will-selecting-overseas-based-players-now-become-a-trend-after-south-africas-compelling-triumph-rassie-erasmus)

Could South Africa’s World Cup triumph spark a new trend in international rugby – that of a country willingly letting its players play their club rugby abroad in the next four-year cycle and using that experience of playing and living overseas to help conjure a champion mix for France 2023?
Protectionism has been rife at international level in recent times, six of the eight World Cup quarter-finalists closing their borders and only working with squads containing players based at home with local clubs.
England, Ireland and New Zealand were among those who had long made it a stipulation that the only way a player would be selected for their national team was to be based in their home country.
With France, Japan and Australia all similarly selecting in this way for the recent finals in Japan, just two of the countries who made it through to the last eight had different rules governing player selection.
Semi-finalists Wales – who took four English Premiership-based players with them to Japan – still had some restrictive regulations in place. Look at how Toulon-based Rhys Webb was never in the mix for selection due to the 60-cap rule applicable to those earning their living away outside Wales.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      
But what of new champions South Africa? They really broke the mould in the innovative way they went about selecting their Test side.
It was 2017 when former Springboks coach Allister Coetzee went along with a plan to only ever select overseas-based players with 30-plus caps. The stipulation was brought in to try and slow the drain of young players who had been leaving for lucrative contracts in England, France and Japan.
The policy’s genesis was understandable – protecting the integrity of the domestic game within South Africa. Come the start of 2019, however, it was unceremoniously scrapped, Rassie Erasmus insisting that when he came home from Munster to take over as SARU director of rugby in 2018 that everything was ripe for change.
