
# Mearns charity golf day scoops more than £10k for St Andrew's Hospice

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:47:04+00:00**

Author: **Ian Bunting, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/ian-bunting/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/mearns-charity-golf-day-scoops-20816844)

A charity golf day run by the Mears Group was a swing and a hit as it scooped £11,500 for St Andrew’s Hospice.
The housing and care organisation, who work in partnership with North Lanarkshire Council, held the event at Dundonald Links.
The fantastic five-figure sum raised during the golf day will help to provide specialist palliative care to patients and their families from communities across both North and South Lanarkshire.
Louise O’Donnell, deputy head of fundraising at the hospice, said: “We are delighted to be working in partnership with Mears who, as well as organising their golf day to raise funds for patient care at the hospice, has continued to help us by being one of our key supporters over the years.
“The dedication and commitment from everyone at Mears have been nothing short of sensational and we are so grateful that they have chosen the hospice to benefit from all of the money raised at the golf day.
“Without the support of businesses like Mears, we wouldn’t be able to continue to provide the care and support that really makes a difference to the lives of our patients, and their loved ones, in Lanarkshire.

        Click here for more from Airdrie and Coatbridge Advertiser
      
“We would like to extend our thanks for everything Mears does to support the hospice – and to everyone who very generously supported their golf event.”
Barry Duncan, managing director at Mears, added: “We are happy to be able to continue supporting St Andrew’s Hospice by organising the golf day.
“The hospice plays an important role in caring for the people in Lanarkshire and Mears are proud to be involved. Well done to everyone who took part for supporting this absolutely fantastic cause.”
Mears provides and manage 12,000 homes for local and central government and is also responsible for keeping 750,000 of all social housing in the UK in good repair; and cares for 20,000 elderly or vulnerable residents.
Visit www.mearsgroup.co.uk/ to find out more.
