
# Hero Splendor iSmart BS6 launched at Rs 64,900

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/hero-splendor-ismart-bs6-launched-at-rs-64900-414809)

The BS6 Splendor iSmart gets a new engine platform and frame. Hero has increased suspension travel and ground clearance.
Hero has just launched its first BS6 two-wheeler – the new Splendor iSmart - at Rs 64,900 (ex-showroom). The new bike comes at a hike of Rs 7,470 over the outgoing model. Apart from the new engine, it also gets a host of other minor tweaks.
The new engine is a 113.2cc, single-cylinder, fuel-injected engine, as compared to the 109.15cc carburetted unit seen on the BS4 Splendor iSmart. Despite the increase in displacement, power is down from 9.5hp to 9.1hp – albeit still produced at 7,500rpm. However, Hero has revealed that there has been a 10 percent increase in torque, with peak figure now being 9.89Nm produced at 5,500rpm. 
The engine sits within a new diamond frame, and Hero has also increased suspension travel by 15mm and wheelbase by 36mm which should allow for a more comfortable and stable ride. The new Splendor iSmart also gets increased ground clearance, up from 165mm to 180mm. However, Hero has managed to do this without bringing about an increase in the 799mm seat height. Other changes include a brighter headlight, and it will continue to feature Hero’s i3s start-stop technology.
Hero has said that the BS6 Splendor iSmart will begin to reaching dealerships over the next 3-4 weeks, after which delivers will commence.
