
# Jeremy Corbyn returns home to the West Midlands as he promises to be 'a very different kind of prime minister'

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Walker, https://www.facebook.com/JonWalkerPolitics?pnref=story**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/jeremy-corbyn-returns-home-west-17206719)

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn will pledge to be "a very different kind of prime minister" if he wins the election, as he returns to his roots by visiting Shropshire.
His visit on Wednesday means both leaders of the two main parties will be in the West Midlands region on the same day. Conservative leader Boris Johnson will be in Birmingham for the official launch of the Conservative election campaign.
Mr Corbyn grew up in Pave Lane, a hamlet in Shropshire near the town of Newport. He was educated at Adams' Grammar School, now known as Haberdashers’ Adams, in the town.
Speaking in nearby Telford, Shropshire, the Labour leader will take on criticism of his leadership style, admitting: "My view of leadership is different from the one people are used to."
He will say: "Yes, I believe leaders should have clear principles that people can trust, and the strength and commitment not to be driven off course.
"You have to stand for something. But leaders must also trust others to play their part."
 
Extracts of his speech released in advance show that Mr Corbyn will say: "So if you, the British people, elect a Labour government on December 12, I will be proud to be your prime minister. Because I will be a very different kind of prime minister. Not the kind of prime minister who believes he was born to rule. Not the kind who thinks politics is a game.
"But the kind of prime minister who only seeks power in order to share power - because it isn’t about me, it’s about all of us."
 
The Labour leader will set out targets by which voters will "be able to judge the success of the next Labour government".
He will say they include an end to in-work poverty, a n end to food bank use and an end to rough sleeping.
