
# Google Play Points rewards you for everything you do on the Play Store

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:00:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/google-play-points-launches-us?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Google
      
It feels like we all participate in dozens of different rewards or loyalty programs, so why not add one more? Google Play is expanding its Play Points program to the U.S. after a successful run in Japan and South Korea, and it's really a win-win for everyone involved.
Anyone can sign up for Play Points in a couple taps, and there's no charge or obligation whatsoever to do so. But once you sign up, you'll start earning Play Points for things you are already doing across Google Play: buying apps, renting movies, making in-app purchases and more. Typically you'll earn a point here or there for each dollar spent, but Google will also rotate through bonus categories where you'll get extra points for certain categories, apps, or in-app purchases. For example there could be a week where you'll get 3x points on movie purchases, or a month where you get 5x points on in-app purchases in a specific game.
You'll also get points in some cases for things that don't cost you anything, like trying out a new free game or app. Just install the app, and pick up some free points. There are also four tiers of participation, from bronze to platinum, where you get extra bonus points for everything you do, so it can really rack up.

        Source: Google
      
So it's easy to get points without much thought — but why do you want these points? Well, they can be converted directly into things that would normally cost you money in the Play Store. You can convert your points into Google Play credit and spend it just as though you had a credit card on file. Some apps and games will also offer exclusive in-app purchases that can only be purchased with Play Points, which is a neat little incentive to get people to try the program.
If you don't feel you need to chase down Play Store credit $1 or $5 at a time, you can also choose to instead spend your points on supporting charitable causes. Google says Doctors Without Borders USA, Save the Children and the World Food Program USA are the first participants you'll be able to donate to.
Like most rewards programs, there really isn't any downside to signing up for Play Points — particularly considering you're already getting all of your apps and games from the Play Store in the first place. You can sign up for Play Points in the coming week right in the Play Store — you'll see it show up under Play Pass in the side bar.

        Save $$$$ Pixel 4 ad shows it will be $200 off for Black Friday from the Google Store An ad was recently spotted online by a Redditor, revealing the Pixel 4 and 4 XL will receive a $200 discount that runs through December 2 for Cyber Monday.
      

        Affordable wireless T-Mobile Connect includes unlimited talk, text, and 5G access for $15/month During the first Un-Carrier event for the New T-Mobile, the company announced a $15/month “T-Mobile Connect” plan that includes unlimited talk, text, 5G access, and a high-speed data allotment that gets bigger each year.
      

        5G for all T-Mobile’s 5G network is launching on December 6 for 200 million people The “new T-Mobile” is launching its 5G network on December 6, and when it does, 200 million people will have access to the network from Day One.
      

        Best for Black Friday These are the best microSD cards to look for on Black Friday A microSD card lets you easily move your files, photos, and music from device to device without having to rely on steady Wi-Fi or costly data. It also helps if you like to load your phone up with apps. These are the best microSD cards you can buy.
      
