
# Salah Snubbed For Egypt Captaincy

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:30:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/african-watch/mohamed-salah-snubbed-for-egypt-captaincy/666889)

There is another twist in the love-hate relationship between Mohamed Salah and Egypt after the Liverpool star was reportedly overlooked for the national team captaincy.

        
          Read: Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
Salah and the Egyptian Football Association have endured a fractured relationship over the past few years, and the 27-year-old has seemingly been dealt another slight after being overlooked for the captain's armband.
According to the Liverpool Echo, Ahmed Fathi has been retained as the Pharaohs' captain after the veteran defender reportedly refused to relinquish his role within the national team.

        Click through the gallery below to see nine high-profile players who were stripped of the captaincy by their clubs!
      
Head coach Hossam El-Badry, who assumed the role after Egypt's disappointing 2019 Africa Cup of Nations campaign, has now confirmed that Salah will not be the nation's new captain.
"The decision of the armband is the responsibility of the manager," El-Badry said.
"There are no problems between Salah and Fathi. In the end, we decided the armband will go to the oldest player."

        
          Read: 'Salah Dives More Than Mane'
        
      
Salah is Egypt's third-highest goalscorer of all time, having scored 41 goals in 67 FIFA-recognised matches for the North African giants.
