
# ***Live Updates*** Trump Holds Kentucky Rally for Gov. Matt Bevin | Breitbart

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:44:40+00:00**

Author: **Tony Lee**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/04/live-updates-trump-holds-kentucky-rally-for-gov-matt-bevin/)

Stay tuned to Breitbart News for live updates.
All times eastern.
—
8:39 PM: Trump says “America is thriving like never before” and says the “best is yet to come.” Rally ends the night before a very important election night.
8:25 PM: Trump says on no issue have Democrats betrayed the American people more than immigration. He says Republicans believe that “taking care of our own citizens first is paramount.” Trump says Democrats are leading an “unrelenting assault against people of faith.”
8:22 PM: Trump: “I defeated ISIS.”
8:15 PM: Trump rips “very slow” and “sleepy Joe” for not taking seriously China’s “piracy and plunder.” He mocks Biden for always saying “folks” and says he needs handlers like “horses” because he makes so many mistakes. Trump rips Obama/Biden for being soft on China and says he is here “because of them.”
“We can’t let our country go back to hell,” Trump says. “Because the Bidens got rich while Americans got robbed.”
Trump says “under this administration, the great betrayal is over. America is not for sale.”
Trump tells Pelosi to pass the USMNC or “go back to San Francisco and clean up your mess.”
8:05 PM: Trump, still obsessing over the New York Times and the Washington Post, says he built up both papers and they gave more credit to the dog than Trump for killing al-Baghdadi. Trump again says they’ll be endorsing him soon because Trump is good for business. Trump now partly taking credit for increase in cable news ratings.
7:53 PM: Trump says Rand Paul is a “little bit different” with his “libertarian touch” but he has always been there when Trump has need a vote. Paul says Trump has “great courage” for “facing down the fake news media every day.” He says Congress needs to step up and have “equal courage” to defend the president. Paul says Hunter Biden’s contract is the “definition of corruption” and says the whistleblower, who worked for Biden at the same time Hunter was getting contracts from oligarchs, needs to come forward as a material witness.
Paul to the media: “Do your job and print his name!”
