
# IND v BAN | Team India await update as Rohit Sharma leaves training after being hit

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:39:18+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/ind-v-ban-team-india-await-update-as-rohit-sharma-leaves-training-after-being-hit?utm_medium=rss)


        Team India await an update on Rohit Sharma from the medical staff after the stand-in captain was forced to leave the training session after he was hit on his left thigh while taking throwdowns. India will take on neighbours Bangladesh in a three-match T20I series, starting on Sunday.
      
Designated to lead the Men in Blue in Virat Kohli's absence, Rohit showed up - along with the team - for a training session on Friday. As is the practice for batsmen, Rohit set up to face throwdowns before moving into a proper nets session. In a bid to counter Mustafizur Rahman in the upcoming series, the team management has designated a left-arm throwdown expert in Sri Lanka's Nuwan to help the Indian batsmen.
Unfortunately, a few throwdowns in, one sharp delivery hit Rohit on his left thigh, forcing him to immediately leave the nets. Rohit, visibly unhappy with the pace at which the delivery was hurled at him, did not take further part in the nets session. 
"Rohit is getting treatment and we will update you when we get the details," a team source told PTI.
Meanwhile, the practice session threw up some interesting indicators regarding the team’s set up ahead of another round of T20s as preparation for the World Cup next year. It was evident that Sanju Samson will not be keeping wickets, at least for the first match in Delhi, as he was seen fielding with others.
No.1 choice Rishabh Pant, meanwhile, was seen devoting extra time to his glovework, although all eyes were really focused on big-hitting Mumbai all-rounder Shivam Dube who was seen talking to head coach Ravi Shastri.
