
# 'What else has he lied about?' - DA after Mantashe backtracks on bribery claims

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Jan Gerber**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/what-else-has-he-lied-about-da-after-mantashe-backtracks-on-bribery-claims-20191101)

Even though Gwede Mantashe said he lied about bribing Sunday World journalists to quash a story about his sex life, the DA still wants Parliament's ethics watchdog committee to investigate him.
The Sunday World published a story about a love triangle involving Mantashe, who is the Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni and Lerato Habiba Makgatho.
The newspaper reported that Mantashe said he paid R70 000 to two of the newspaper's journalists to not publish the story.
However, he refused to name them and said the publication could go ahead and write the story as that was his comment.
On Tuesday morning, Mantashe denied the claims.
Then on Thursday, after meeting with Sunday World editor Makudu Sefara and the South African Editors Forum (Sanef), Mantashe said that while he told the newspaper that he bribed their journalists, he did not actually do it.
[Mantashe] neither met with nor paid any journalists. He retracts what he said," read the statement from his spokesperson, David Shabangu.
But DA spokesperson Kevin Mileham asked Parliament's Joint Committee on Ethics and Members' Interests to probe Mantashe.
On Friday, Mileham said the DA noted new reports indicating that Mantashe retracted his claims.
"Mantashe has now stated that he lied about bribing these members of the media. Such a turn of events is almost comical in nature, and even if the minister lied about the bribes, it is only an indication that he acted in an openly dishonest manner," Mileham said in a statement.
