
# 'For sure' - Boss issues Jack Grealish England message - and Aston Villa fans will love it

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:33:59+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/jack-grealish-england-aston-villa-17201644)

Aston Villa boss Dean Smith says Jack Grealish is fit and ready to join up with the England squad if he is called up by Gareth Southgate.
The Three Lions host Montenegro in a Euro 2020 qualifier on November 14 before travelling to Kosovo three days later.
Grealish has been touted for the next England squad following his excellent displays for Villa in recent weeks, the captain netting his first goals of the season for the club last month.
He was instrumental in the 2-1 defeat of Brighton and Hove Albion on October 19, scoring the equaliser before setting up Matt Targett's last-gasp winner.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
The 24-year-old was also on the scoresheet in the 5-1 rout at Norwich at the start of last month.
However, he has been out since he injured his calf in the final few minutes of the 3-0 defeat at Manchester City.
He missed the 2-1 defeat to Liverpool last time out , but should he be included when the England squad is announced for the Euro qualifiers Smith says he will pass him fit to join up with the national team.
"He's available for (England) selection that's for sure," Smith said.
 
After the Liverpool game, Smith addressed the fitness of his talisman for the visit of Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday (2pm).
He missed the Carabao Cup clash between the two sides at Villa Park last month, watching his side record a 2-1 win over their West Midlands rivals to set up a quarter-final tie with Liverpool.
"I said to him I need you 100 per cent, we're playing against one of the top teams in the world," Smith said .
"We need players who are 100 per cent and he held his hand up.
"He'll be good for next week against Wolves."
