
# Scots mum fighting for life after brain haemorrhage on American holiday

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:52:08+00:00**

Author: **Nicholas Keyden, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/nicholas-keyden/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scots-mum-fighting-life-after-20797078)

A Scots mum is fighting for her life after suffering a brain haemorrhage while on holiday with her pals in America.
June Adams, from Dundee , was in Detroit when she was struck down by a Subarachnoid Haemorrhage and rushed to hospital for emergency brain surgery on Monday October 28.
Her children George, Scott and Ashley have all flown stateside to be with her.
Daughter-in-law Jillian, who is married to son George, has since launched a charity drive to raise funds for the children to pay for accommodation while their mum remains in a US hospital.
Initially looking to raise £5k, Jillian says she has been "totally overwhelmed" after the target was smashed within 24 hours of going live.
  
Writing on the GoFundMe page, Jillian said: "Sadly Monday 28th October, our Mother June Adams, whilst on holiday in Detroit with friends, suffered a Subarachnoid Haemorrhage and needed emergency brain surgery.
"We are trying to raise funds to help support her 3 children, George, Scott and Ashley who have travelled from the U.K. to be there at her bedside to support their mother through this traumatic time.
"As anyone knows who has travelled to the USA can appreciate how expensive flights, hotels etc are.
"We would like to raise money to help support the family with their costs while they are going though this difficult time."
Kind hearted fundraisers have given more than £6,500 in just 24 hours.
You can donate to the GoFundMe page here .
