
# Clarks to close 'meaningful' number of shoe shops as high street curse continues

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:50:35+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/clarks-close-meaningful-number-shoe-20832644)

Iconic footwear chain Clarks has warned that more closures are on the cards after its losses more than doubled.
The 194-year-old retailer, which has more than 1,000 branches worldwide, said it may be forced to axe more branches amid tumbling profits.
The latest accounts show sales fell 4.6% to £1.47billion, pushing losses from £31.3million to £82.9million in the past year.
It's one of a series of chains that have been hit by the so-called curse of the high street, with footfall dropping by 6.2%, according to latest accounts.
Falling sales have previously led to 18 loss-making stores being shut in the UK, and bosses now plan further closures for next year. 
Much of the loss is down to a £49.8million hit from onerous lease commitments and a writedown of its store estate.
Interim chief executive Stella David said: "It was an incredibly difficult year. The company is preparing to take rapid actions to exit worst-performing sites."
The firm's finance chief Paul Kenyon added: "A meaningful number of stores will close over the next five years".
“The retail space continues to be a challenging sector to operate in, with a tough trading environment and a broader global climate of economic uncertainty. However, Clarks’ global reach and multi-channel trading model continues to provide considerable mitigation against the trading headwinds in the UK and US," Kenyon said.
"The business continues to perform strongly in Europe and America, despite a challenging retail market. Digital sales continue to perform strongly and are up versus prior year, with double-digit growth recorded in Europe, America and Asia. Meanwhile, we have a strong grip on our cost base and working capital and are working hard to reduce overheads and keep borrowings around the low levels achieved in recent years."
 
Clarks has 1,000 shops globally, with 553 in the UK and Ireland.
Earlier this year, the retailer confirmed plans to axe its only remaining UK factory at a loss of dozens of jobs.
The firm - which opened the new "robot-assisted" technology factory in 2017 - said it will close as a result of targets not being met.
Around 300,000 pairs of the footwear firm's iconic desert boots were originally set to be made at the factory - which would hire around 80 workers at its headquarters in Somerset.
However, the firm has now confirmed it will close after those targets were not met.
"In January 2019, we announced a proposal to cease production and close our Morelight manufacturing facility in Street," Clarks said in a statement.
"Despite our best efforts, the levels of production and cost targets we hoped for could not be reached in the short to medium term and following a period of consultation, the proposal has been accepted and the factory will close.
"We have a strong duty of care to all our employees and have been supporting them through this process, offering outplacement support and identifying alternative roles at Clarks. We’re pleased that 10 employees have taken up a new role within our business, but regrettably the remaining 35 employees will be leaving us. They leave with our thanks and best wishes for the future."
The company started making shoes in the county in 1825 but production was moved from to the Far East in 2005.
The last remaining Clarks plant in the UK - Millom in Cumbria - closed in 2006.
