
# Labour would make all new homes zero carbon by 2022

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:33+00:00**

Author: **Heather Stewart**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/01/labour-would-make-all-new-homes-zero-carbon-by-2022)


        Jeremy Corbyn to say new standard for housebuilders is part of the real change he is promising the country
      
Labour would introduce tough new standards forcing housebuilders to make new properties zero carbon within three years, Jeremy Corbyn is to announce.
The last Labour government introduced regulations to make all homes zero carbon by 2016, but the rules were scrapped by David Cameron less than a year before they were due to come into force.
Now, Labour says it would create a new “zero-carbon standard” to ensure new homes make no positive contribution to greenhouse emissions. The standard would be introduced by 2022.
The party’s leader, Jeremy Corbyn, says tackling the climate emergency is at the heart of the “real change” he promised when he launched Labour’s campaign for the general election on Thursday.
“Homes should be safe and warm for families and not damage the environment for future generations,” he will say in a speech on Saturday. “But our housing currently contributes a massive 14% of the UK’s greenhouse gas emissions.
“We will tackle the housing and climate crises at the same time by building warm and energy-efficient homes.”
Zero-carbon homes have to be so efficient and well insulated that they can generate as much energy as they use, leading to an expected cut of up to £200 a year from household energy bills.
The regulations would not specify how the target should be achieved – but it would be likely to result in many more homes being fitted with solar panels, better insulation, and energy-saving alternatives to traditional gas boilers, such as heat pumps.
The Goldsmith Street development of council houses in Norwich, which recently won the Stirling architecture prize, minimise their carbon footprint by complying with the ambitious German Passivhaus standard, for example.
The shadow housing secretary, John Healey, said: “The Conservatives’ decision to cave in to property developers and slash green standards means we are building homes today that aren’t fit for the future – they’re bad for the environment and expensive to run.”
Corbyn will spend Saturday touring constituencies in south-west England as the party gears up for a tough six-week election campaign.
Tory MP Robert Jenrick, the secretary of state for housing, communities and local government, said: “Labour are setting unrealistic targets that would slow down housebuilding and put up house prices.“Boris Johnson and the Conservatives are taking a practical, sensible approach to reducing emissions from homes. We are introducing a Future Homes Standard that will be ensure new homes meet reductions in emissions by a third by 2020, and world leading by 2025.”
Labour’s homes pledge comes as the government announced the launch of a review into how the UK can meet its target of producing net zero carbon emissions by 2050. The pledge was put in legislation by Theresa May in one of her final acts in Downing Street.
The Treasury review will examine how the UK can maximise economic growth, while making the transition to being a green economy.
The chancellor, Sajid Javid, said: “The UK is leading the way on tackling climate change as the first major economy to legislate for net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. We must all play a part in protecting the planet for future generations.
“This review is a vital next step in delivering that commitment, ensuring that we can end our contribution to global warming, while supporting growth and balancing costs, to avoid placing unfair burdens on families or businesses.”
