
# PCB temporarily avoids player strike over T10 League and CPL NOCs

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:55:25+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/pcb-temporarily-avoids-player-strike-over-t-10-league-and-cpl-no-cs?utm_medium=rss)


        The Pakistan Cricket Board has for now avoided the player strike over the Abu Dhabi T10 league and NOCs for playing the CPL. Imad Wasim, Mohammad Amir and Shoaib Malik were among the players who were about to call a strike when a last moment meeting with PCB CEO Wasim Khan avoided the strike.
      
Bangladesh players had recently called a strike for showing their discontent regarding the player salaries and contracts. Taking inspiration from this, a group of Pakistani players was almost ready to call a strike against the PCB and one of the major reasons was that they were not allowed to participate in the Abu Dhabi T10 league and were denied NOCs over participating in the CPL. About 12 players met Wasim Khan on the day of Pakistan's national T20 Cup Final and discussed these issues with the PCB CEO.
The PCB works on an informal policy that allows Pakistani players to get NOCs for PSL plus one big league. As many as 15 Pakistani players were present in the draft of the T10 league. But the NOCs were revoked after Prime Minister and former Pakistan captain Imran Khan had a chat with PCB President Ehsan Mani and other board officials that the Pakistan players were trying to participate in a league which had some kind of Indian investment, something that is not supported as far as Pakistan's foreign policy about India is concerned. Accordingly, the discontent grew among the players and they threatened to announce a strike. Some of the players in the draft are a part of Pakistan's T20I squad against Australia.
"If we play an entire domestic season even then we won't be making as much as in these leagues. We are given India's example and how their board doesn't give NOCs, but Indian players earn millions in IPL, their domestic salaries alone are good enough, they don't need to play other leagues," an unnamed Pakistan player told ESPNCricinfo.
"We understand the PCB can't give us that much money but at least make it reasonable, at least give us some clarity," he further added.
"If they didn't want us to play T10, then why didn't they tell us earlier? Why did we even enter the draft? Same with the CPL. Why would franchises sign Pakistan players in the future when they know the PCB can do anything anytime?" said another Pakistan player.
Pakistan's T20I series against Australia is set to finish on the 8th of November. Thus there is a high possibility of players regrouping and presenting their case before the board before the start of the Abu Dhabi T10 league. With player salaries being a glaring issue for the Pakistan domestic players too, PCB will have to make some decisive amendments in their policies to prevent the players from calling a strike.
