
# TikTok launches its first-ever smartphone: Know all about it here

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/tiktok-launches-its-first-ever-smartphone-know-all-about-it-here/)

TikTok by ByteDance is a social media video app for creating and sharing short lip-sync, comedy, and talent videos. The company recently announced that it’ll soon enter into an already super-crowded smartphone manufacturing industry by releasing its first-ever Android smartphone.
True to its word, the social media giant has just launched its first-ever smartphone, which goes by the name Smartisan Jianguo Pro 3…and no one really knows as to what happened to the Pro and Pro 2.
The smartphone, however, packs impressive specs. We’re talking Qualcomm’s the most powerful chipset the Snapdragon 855 Plus coupled with 12GB RAM and 256GB internal storage. The smartphone will also be available in 8GB RAM and 128GB, 8GB RAM and 256GB storage variants, and, of course, these will cost a little bit less than the 12GB+256GB model.
Featuring a 6.39-inch FHD+ AMOLED display with a screen resolution of 1080×2340 pixels, the Smartisan Jianguo Pro 3 rocks quad-camera setup on the rear and a single image sensor on the front for selfies. On the rear, you get a primary 48MP Sony IMX586 sensor, secondary 13MP wide-angle lens, an 8MP telephoto lens, and a 5MP macro lens. For selfie lovers, the TikTok has a 20MP front camera, and housing it, is a teardrop notch at the front.
You can expect the battery life to be decent as it is powered by a huge 4000mAh battery, with support for 18W fast charging. The smartphone also supports 4G VoLTE.
Coming to the pricing, the base model that has 8GB RAM and 128GB internal storage costs Rs 29,000, which translates to roughly $410. Smartisan Jianguo Pro 3 that comes with 8GB RAM and 256GB will cost Rs. 32,000(~$449), while the model with 12GB RAM and 256GB storage costs Rs. 36,000(~$509).
