
# Starting XI: PSG vs Brugge

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:41:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/uefa-champions-league-starting-xi-paris-saint-germain-vs-club-brugge/666919)

Percy Tau's Club Brugge will need a result against Paris Saint-Germain tonight or see their chances of reaching the UEFA Champions League knockout stage almost disappear – here is how both teams line up!

        
          Click through the gallery above to see PSG's illustrious line-up against Brugge.
        
      
Champions League
Teams: Paris Saint-Germain vs Club Brugge
Date: 6 November
Time: 22:00
Venue: Parc des Princes
Kylian Mbappe made the headlines in the first leg after scoring a hat-trick off the bench to help PSG beat Brugge 5-0.
The Belgium side has recovered from their heavy defeat, drawing one and winning two of their three league games since.
The Mzansi star, though, has only played 70 minutes since that defeat, with his coach saying he still needs to get used to playing three games a week at a higher level.
Les Parisiens, who will still be without injured superstar Neymar, go into the match off the back of a surprise 2-1 defeat to Dijon, but have won all their Champions League fixtures so far this season.
The French giants are the only team that is yet to concede in this season's UCL, and could book their ticket to the round of 16 with a win.
What makes matters even tougher for Brugge is the fact that Thomas Tuchel's side has lost just three of their past 52 European games at home, with the latest loss coming in the 3-1 defeat to Manchester United in last season's round of 16.

        Here is how the teams line up:
      
Paris Saint-Germain: Navas , Kimpembe, Thiago Silva, Marquinhos, Bernat, Gueye, Dagba, Verratti , Di Maria, Mbappé, Icardi.
Club Brugge: Mignolet, Ricca, Deli, Mechele, Kossounou, Balanta, Vanaken, Rits, Dennis, Okereke, Diatta.
