
# Focus Dynamics forms JV for operation of Malaysian F&B outlets

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:13:00+00:00**

Author: **Ahmad Naqib Idris**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/focus-dynamics-forms-jv-operation-malaysian-fb-outlets)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Focus Dynamics Group Bhd said its wholly-owned subsidiary Marquee International Sdn Bhd will team up with Citrasli Emas Sdn Bhd for the operation of food and beverage (F&B) outlets in Malaysia.
Marquee will hold a 55% stake in a newly set-up joint-venture (JV) firm called Goldhill Eagle Sdn Bhd, while Citrasli will hold a 35% stake. The balance 10% will be held by investors identified by Citrasli.
Focus Dynamics said both parties have agreed to invite other parties to invest up to RM1 million in return for a maximum of 10% of the shares in Goldhill.
It added that Marquee and Citrasli will be paying RM650 and RM350 for their respective stakes in Goldhill.
One of the investors is Forlenza Touch Sdn Bhd, which will hold not more than 5% of shares in Goldhill, it said.
It is unclear as to what business Citrasli is involved in, as Focus Dynamics did not elaborate in its filing with the bourse today.
The deal is expected to contribute positively to the earnings and earnings per share of Focus Dynamics, as the earnings would be realised in stages over the tenure of the agreement, the group said.
Focus Dynamics shares closed up 0.5 sen or 1.32% at 38.5 sen today, for a market capitalisation of RM786.89 million.
