
# From Reality TV To Attorney: Erica Rose

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Burns**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stephanieburns/2019/11/02/from-reality-tv-to-attorney-erica-rose/)

From the outside, a career in reality TV and a career in law don’t seem to have much overlap. It’s a common misconception that the average reality TV star does little to obtain their status outside of possessing a considerable amount of luck. However, this assumption belies the grueling amount of work reality TV stars put in to creating an enjoyable experience for the viewer. Former Bachelor and Bachelor Pad contestant Erica Rose claims that her experience working in reality TV allowed her to develop skills that have aided her in her entrepreneurial goals. After her appearances on the shows, Rose received a Master of Law in Entertainment and Media Law from Southwestern Law School in Los Angeles to. She has since opened up her own law firm, The Erica Rose Law Firm.
Through her experiences in reality TV and owning her own business, Rose has identified mindsets that have aided her — and could possibly aid others — in the pursuit of her entrepreneurial goals.

        Possess a perseverant work ethic
      
From developing a business plan, balancing budgets, and creating connections with new clientele, starting a new business requires an immense amount of multi-tasking. It takes an attitude of perseverance to push through the long hours of juggling both menial and complex tasks, all of which are vital in the start-up process.
Rose believes she gained her work ethic not only from her father, a successful business owner, but also from her time on the Bachelor. On her contribution to the show, she stated, “Some days we would shoot for 18 plus hours and sleep as little as 4. It was necessary to make a good show.” Rose applies that same work ethic to running her business, dedicating her time to meeting with clients, going to court, creating legal strategies, and so on.
It is easy to look at the vast number of tasks that go into creating a business and write them off as an impossible feat. However, it is through taking risks, rather they lead to success or failure, that entrepreneurs develop the stamina to persevere.

        Develop connections with peers
      
The presence of social media has created an easy and relatively inexpensive way to promote a business. Social media provides businesses owners the ability to build trust with their clientele. Beyond simply using these platforms to share ads, the pages of both businesses and their owners can provide a way to engage peers with connections to their personal life. 
Transitioning from the Bachelor to being a business owner, Rose has found that her social media presence has aided her in connecting with potential clients. Through creating an Instagram page for her business, “I have had clients who followed me on Instagram message me and find me as an attorney that way, as well as other attorneys who were fans of mine from the show.” 
Furthermore, possessing an open, personal social media page creates can greatly humanize a business owner. Rose does this by sharing her experiences getting a divorce and being a mom on her personal Instagram page. Sharing such personal content lets Rose’s clients know that she understands where she has been and enstows in them a belief that she will do her best work to solve their problems.

        Pursue a career that is fulfilling
      
The true motivation behind developing a strong work ethic and a sense of connection with one’s peers stems from having a passion for one’s career. When the time, money, and man-power being invested into the start-up process seem to be going towards nothing, it is easy to lose steam. However, a true passion for one’s work is often the life-line that keeps entrepreneurs pushing towards their final goal.
Rose’s experience getting divorced after having her first child instilled in her a passion for helping women who are going through similar trials in their life. When asked why she chose a career in law over that of a social media influencer, Rose responded, “I didn’t get fulfillment the same way as I do representing someone in a custody battle or a victim or harassment.” 
It’s this search for fulfillment that gave Rose the confidence to leave a secure associate position at a big law firm to start her own business. It’s the search for fulfillment that drives successful entrepreneurs to reach out, take big risks, and bounce back if they fail.
