
# Rulani: If You Look At The Numbers…

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/orlando-a-fortress-says-rulani/666879)

While he concedes that his profession is all about results, Orlando Pirates coach Rulani Mokwena has insisted, though, that their home record since 2016 does suggest Orlando Stadium is a fortress.
The Buccaneers were again unbeaten at their Soweto venue when they hosted Maritzburg United in the Absa Premiership, but a victory would have no doubt gone a long way in moving Pirates further up the table.  

        Read: 'That Was Enough To Make Him A Bad Goalkeeper' 
      
After last night, Mokwena has now only managed three wins in 12 games since taking over the reins as head coach at the club three months ago. 
“The home record is interesting because if you look at what the numbers say we are undefeated in 18 games at home. We have only lost twice out of 36 games since 2016, so Orlando Stadium is a fortress,” Mokwena told reporters following the goalless draw with Eric Tinkler’s Maritzburg on Tuesday night.
“But yes, the reality is that there are games we have played and you would say we have dropped two points, like today (Maritzburg), because of the way we played and the amount of pressure we put on the opponent.”
Pirates next face rivals Kaizer Chiefs, who are top of the table and eliminated them from the Telkom Knockout quarter-finals at the weekend. 
“We keep going and trying to make sure we turn performance into expected results because, obviously, coaches are judged on results and not performance. It’s important that we get the results and get ourselves in a better position on the log,” said Mokwena. 

        Read: Middendorp Distances Himself From Chiefs History  
      
