
# Assessing A-League's visa signings: a tale of two Melbournes

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:00:24+00:00**

Author: **Richard Parkin**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/04/assessing-a-leagues-visa-signings-a-tale-of-two-melbournes)


        They’re the players expected to lift the quality of a playing squad, but getting it wrong can sink a season
      
Four rounds into the 2019-20 campaign and fans have had a chance to appraise most of their foreign signings. Serious injuries have robbed the competition of big names like Radosław Majewski and Wes Hoolahan, but for many clubs it has been a mixed report card for the men recruited to theoretically elevate on-field performances.
Two clubs in particular have excelled; two clubs have floundered. Both of which squared off against each other in round four, making the divergence even more apparent.
Sydney FC’s foreign recruitment strategy in recent years has been simple – put your salary cap resources into a few baskets, and protect those baskets. In Adam Le Fondre, Miloš Ninković, Kosta Barbarouses and Alex Baumjohann the Sky Blues have perhaps the most fearsome front four in the competition. After the mixed success of Siem de Jong, Jop van der Linden and Reza Ghoochannejhad, tellingly all four are proven competitors in the A-League. It’s one thing relying on the tapes from overseas, it’s another knowing that a player can perform week-in, week-out in Australian conditions.
At the other end of the scale, Hoolahan’s injury has already torn asunder Newcastle Jets’ off-season plans. A quintessentially Ernie Merrick kind of player, with an eye for both goal and pass, as well as brilliant from set pieces, Hoolahan is not just a star, but a playmaker that elevates those around him. There are plenty of willing workers in Newcastle’s squad – but players like Jason Hoffman become twice as effective when fed by teammates of Hoolahan’s calibre. Abdiel Arroyo has shown he’s a useful target man – an essential piece of the puzzle – but he’ll never be a 20-goal-a-season player without the guile of a Hoolahan, while Bobby Burns and Matt Ridenton will prove handy, but are more budget-appropriate signings than big-money x-factors.
Offering no excuses in the finances department is the league’s richest club, Melbourne Victory, who like Newcastle ran into a side over the weekend whose visa signings have already integrated brilliantly, as Mark Rudan’s stars illuminated the first ever Victory-Western United derby.
Like Tim Cahill’s 40m derby wonder-strike, sometimes big money conjures pure magic. Alessandro Diamanti’s instinctive improvised finish was of the highest quality. A world-class player elevating a contest, raising the spirits of his teammates, and sending fans home in rapture.
While Filip Kurto’s ability is well known to Rudan, it has been the performances of his three other visa signings that have Western United charging out of the blocks in their debut season.
If Diamanti – a quixotic talent and personality that Rudan has already admitted can both delight and frustrate – is the brain, then Panagiotis Kone is the heart. More than just a box-to-box worker, he’s demonstrated a cultured array of passing, excellent tempo management and a goal and assist in just four games. Behind both of those is the unsung Dario Jertec. The midfield screen to protect the defence, Jertec displays excellent game awareness as well as high technical proficiency.
More than any other team, Rudan’s four visa signings have played 98% of all possible minutes – they’re not just squad contributors, they’re the spine of the team.
The same can’t be said for Marco Kurz’s foreign army, who after the high-profile departures of Keisuke Honda, Terry Antonis, Barbarouses, James Troisi and veteran skipper Carl Valeri, always looked like they would have big shoes to fill.
Ola is Ola. One of the highest quality recruits the A-League has ever seen – and there’s no indication that he’s lost any hunger or ability over the off-season. Scoring Victory’s opener, and creating their second, there’s little more the skipper could have done individually.
Injury to Tim Hoogland is a blow – despite solid cover in the position. But it’s the midfield three of Kristijan Dobras, Migjen Basha and Jakob Poulsen that have Victory fans shifting uncomfortably.
A debut goal albeit via deflection may help Dobras settle, but from Basha and Poulsen, despite the evident quality, it’s as if Kurz has signed two halves. Put them together and you’ve got a 68-year-old midfielder, commanding huge wages, while still struggling to exert half the influence of the departed Valeri.
It’s no coincidence that the top four clubs early on have done better than average business with their visa signings, with Western Sydney Wanderer’s Pirmin Schwegler and Daniel Lopar already contenders for signing of the season, and “der Fußball Gott” Alexander Meier showing hints of his class, despite still building fitness.
Melbourne City are an aberration, but like Wanderers they’ve been able to call on high-quality youngsters to cover injury to their foreign legion, and boast an in-form marquee in Jamie Maclaren.
There are a host of factors that go into a successful A-League campaign, but foreign signings firing is one of the most important. It raises the playing standard on the pitch, the morale in the dressing room, and the sense of excitement on the terraces. But get it wrong and this circular and cumulation causation works in reverse.
