
# Look To The Rook And The Raven To Organize Your D&D Game

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rob Wieland**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robwieland/2019/11/07/look-to-the-rook-and-the-raven-to-organize-your-dd-game/)

Even Dungeons & Dragons adventurers need help keeping things organized. Wizards need to remember what spells they have. Druids need to keep track of what animals they’ve encountered to use their Wild Shape abilities. Rogues want to know who owes them money (and to whom they owe money). The classic character sheet is a good place to start but for the long haul of a campaign there’s nothing quite like a journal full of notes and sketches.Enter The Rook and The Raven. They’ve built a successful small business off of two Kickstarters based around their discbound notebooks for D&D and other RPGs. Discbound notebooks offer a modular system of collecting notes into a journal that can be arranged to the owner’s liking because of the modular nature of the system. Discbound notebooks can be found under Circa and Arc brand names at office supply stores and are compatible with the books put out by The Rook and The Raven. What this company offers are pages built for D&D players that have filled in the notes section on their character sheet ten times over and Dungeon Masters looking to keep their notes straight and their labyrinths twisty.
The Campaign Diary spreads out the spaces for information on a standard Dungeons & Dragons over four 6” x 9” pages. Keeping everything straight on a single page is easy when a character is at 1st level, but single sheets rapidly run out of room as a campaign progresses. These pages offer everything a hero needs to play, such as spaces for common attacks, class features and spell slops for magic using characters. The discbound construction allows players to quickly and easily customize the note book to their character. Playing a wizard with a full spellbook? Add another page or two of spells to the front of the book. Playing a fighter who won’t ever cast anything? Swap out those pages with ones built for more weapons and combat tactics. The Campaign Diary has pages for session by session notes, graph pages for mapping and even a few included character refills on the unfortunate chance that a character meets their untimely end.
For resources that change during the game, there’s a clear plastic overlay that fits over two pages that can works with a wet erase marker to track things like hit points and combat conditions. No more erasing that part of a character sheet down to a nub.
For Dungeon Masters, the Campaign Planner lets the DM zoom in and out on their campaign depending on their focus at the time. This books includes pages to work out story arcs, graph paper to sketch out dungeons and pages discussing both significant NPCs and the smaller background players. An unexpected delight were the pages focused on keeping notes about the players. These can be notes raging from preferences on plot, puzzles and combat to remembering that a player has a particular phobia about spiders that should disqualify any monsters or imagery on that subject to be used in game.
The encounter spread also makes use of a clear plastic cover sheet over two pages that allows the Dungeon Master to keep track of their creatures and the status of the players. The Party snapshot covers obvious things like Armor Class and HP but also things like passive Perception, Insight and Stealth. NPC pages come in both regular and boss battle sizes with a built in initiative tracker down the side.
There’s a lot to love in the basic offerings in the line, but The Rook and The Raven goes above and beyond with customization options. Page packs refill used pages and expand into specific areas, like animal companions and the life. Additional cover customization is offered with color, texture and limited edition artwork. The company has even expanded into RPGs outside of Dungeons & Dragons by offering packs compatible with games like Pathfinder, Shadowrun, Call of Cthulhu and more.
These discbound notebooks are excellent choices for players looking to organize their game and Dungeon Masters tired of scribbling out plot on napkins and old notebooks they’ve had since high school. The study construction helps protect from the dangers of gaming like spilled beverages and being crumpled in a backpack for weeks in between game. Whether as a gift to a D&D fan or tribute to a Dungeom Master in the hopes they may show mercy, these notebooks upgrade the experience at any Dungeons & Dragons table.
