
# Brown on Fernando Alonso's future: He’s one of the fastest drivers in the world

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49591/brown-on-fernando-alonso-s-future-he-s-one-of-the-fastest-drivers-in-the-world-.html)


        Fernando Alonso is regarded as one of the greatest drivers of his generation. The two time World Champion retired from Formula 1 at the end of last season and there has been much speculation and hype about a potential return to Formula 1 for the Spaniard. 
      
McLaren have confirmed their driver lineup for 2020 but are wanting to keep a strong relationship with Alonso and race in different series with him. They have attempted the Indy500 twice but failed to succeed and this is something they might look at doing again in the future. 
“Well at the end of this year, we’ll have a conversation about what the future may or may not look like,” McLaren CEO Zak Brown was quoted by Crash.net.“We’ve got an IndyCar team now, we continue to look at WEC.

        “We’ve got Mika Hakkinen on a long-term contract as an ambassador, so I think we’ll sit down with Fernando at the end of the year and just talk about what does he want to do moving forward, what do we want to do moving forward, and is there something there working together that makes sense.”
      
Brown is desperate to keep working with Alonso and believes he's one of the greatest drivers. 
“You know I think he’s an immense talent. I’ve got a really good relationship with him,” Brown explained.

        “I think with the different racing activities that we’re doing, if there’s something that we have that makes sense to put Fernando in a car, I still think he’s one of the fastest drivers in the world.
      

        “We’re set with our direction in Formula 1 with our current drivers, but depending on what the other activities are, very open-minded to continuing a relationship with Fernando.”
      
Alonso will hope to succeed in whatever racing series he decides to enter. Who knows, if the 2021 rule changes improve the sport, we could see him return to Formula 1! 
