
# ISL 2019-20 | This is not my team and this not what I want, says an angry Jorge Costa

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:28:12+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/01/isl-2019-20-this-is-not-my-team-and-this-not-what-i-want-says-an-angry-jorge-costa?utm_medium=rss)


        Mumbai City head Jorge Costa wasn’t a calm man after a disastrous 2-4 loss to Odisha FC at home on Thursday and stated that it wasn’t his team that was playing at the Mumbai Football Arena. He further revealed that he had realized in training that his players were overconfident before the game.
      
After beating a star-studded Kerala Blasters in the first match and drawing against Chennaiyin FC in the first two matches, both away from home, Jorge Costa had a relatively easier assignment in their backyard against new entrants Odisha FC.
However, the Islanders were seen getting thrashed 2-4 by the visitors at the back of a sloppy defence that killed the game for themselves even before the second-half started. And Costa came down heavily on his players for the complacency shown on the pitch.
“The problem is that after two games, we felt that our job was done and in football when you are not prepared for the things you must do, you cannot expect more than what we did in the first 45 minutes. We conceded some silly goals. This is not my team. This is not what I want. This is for sure not what (the players) want. But as I said, today we didn’t deserve anything else but a loss,” said the Portuguese coach in the post-match press conference, reported ISL website.
However, Costa was quick to point out that Odisha deserved to win the match by all means before revealing that he felt was something was missing in the training the other day before the match.
“This game, with all respect to Odisha, they played well. They deserved to win. With almost the same players, we did good things. I didn’t like yesterday’s training and I felt that they think now that they are much better than they really are. We must work again. We must be focussed. We must be 100 per cent professional and we must respect the others,” he added.
