
# Arsenal identify top managerial targets amid uncertainty over Unai Emery's future

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:54:18+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, Matt Maltby, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-identify-top-managerial-targets-20805995)

Former Juventus manager Max Allegri and ex-Arsenal midfielder Mikel Arteta are among the candidates to replace Unai Emery if the Spaniard is axed by Emirates chiefs.
A section of supporters have turned on Gunners boss Emery following a run of two wins from their last nine Premier League games.
Emery came in for criticism after his side allowed a lead to slip for the third time in a week as they drew 1-1 with Wolves on Saturday.
Head of Football Raul Sanllehi and technical director Edu have a growing influence at the club while Josh Kroenke, director and son of the majority shareholder Stan, is also committed to giving Emery time even though it now looks to be running out.
But Arsenal are limited in options in terms of potential successors as Jose Mourinho would divide opinion among fans because of his toxic relationship with Arsene Wenger and jibes at the club in the past.
Patrick Vieira is struggling at Nice, so they could turn back to Pep Guardiola’s No.2 at Manchester City Arteta who was a contender last year but is still on the radar.
Allegri is also keen on a new job and fancies English football, although he has been linked with Bayern Munich who sacked Niko Kovac over the weekend.
The former Juventus boss was in the frame in 2018 but did not get the job as he was believed to have interviewed badly.
There was fresh speculation on Sunday morning that Sanllehi had met Mourinho for dinner, fuelling the fire over a potential move for the 56-year-old.
However, it is understood that such a meeting did not take place and the pair have not had a conversation for years.
Emery opted to leave Granit Xhaka out of squad on Saturday after he swore at supporters who jeered him when he was substituted during the draw with Crystal Palace last week.
While it remains to be seen if Xhaka will retain the armband, vice-captain Aubameyang filled the role well against Wolves - getting on the scoresheet as he led the side out for the first time - and Emery suggested he could be a long-term option.
"He could be," he replied when asked if Aubameyang could remain captain beyond the one game.
"I think he can take that responsibility and today he did that. He is one captain and I think he can take that responsibility. We will analyse the match first, and our situation for the next matches and decide."
