
# Candidates Shred Warren's Medicare for All Plan: 'Simply Not Believable'

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:45:09+00:00**

Author: **Hannah Bleau**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/01/2020-candidates-shred-warrens-medicare-all-plan-simply-not-believable/)

On Friday, Warren unveiled her highly anticipated plan for Medicare for All, providing details on how she would pay for the $52 trillion proposal, which would require roughly $20.5 trillion in new spending over the next decade. She proclaimed that her plan would not require a middle class tax hike, proposing to pay for the multitrillion-dollar program by increasing her “Ultra-Millionaire Tax,”  slashing defense spending, providing a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants, and repurposing existing costs. The latter, for example, would require companies with more than 50 employees to make payments to the government in the form of an “Employer Medicare Contribution,” which she argues would replace the existing payments they make to healthcare providers.
However, some of her 2020 rivals are already taking issue with her lofty proposal.
Bennet released a statement asserting that her plan is “simply not believable.”
“Voters are sick and tired of politicians promising them things that they know they can’t deliver,” he said in a statement. “Warren’s new numbers are simply not believable and have been contradicted by experts.”
“Regardless of whether it’s $21 trillion or $31 trillion, this isn’t going to happen, and the American people need health care,” he added.
Biden, through his deputy campaign manager, Kate Bedingfield, also blasted the Massachusetts senator’s plan.
“For months, Elizabeth Warren has refused to say if her health care plan would raise taxes on the middle class, and now we know why: because it does,” Bedingfield said, according to the Hill.
“Senator Warren would place a new tax of nearly $9 trillion that will fall on American workers,” she continued:
Biden has emphasized building on Obamacare and even promoted it in a tweet on Friday:
