
# Strictly viewers left baffled by judge Motsi Mabuse's outfit choice

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:15:07+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictly-viewers-left-baffled-judge-20804100)

Tonight's results show saw head judge Motsi Mabuse shimmy onto the Strictly Come Dancing ballroom in an unusual dress.
The judge, 38, baffled viewers as she stepped out in a blush-coloured frilly dress with sheer layered detailing and dramatic lace ruffles.
The glamorous professional started the seventh results show with the eye-catching look, but viewers weren't so keen with the quirky number.
Strictly fans quickly fled to Twitter to comment on the judge's dress choice and compare it to a 'sheep'.
 
One user posted: "Why is Motsi Mabuse dressed like a sheep!!"
While another shared: "Motsi looks like the end of a roll of fabric."
A third fan commented: "Do you think Motsi has ever met a ruffle she didn't like?"
Another viewer swiped: "I like Motsi but that dress is horrifying."
 
Motsi's nude fashion ensemble featured a short ruffled hemline, similar to that of a 90's Ra Ra skirt, but also layered ruffles across the whole bodice.
The dress is priced at £129 and available from fashion retailer House Of CB.
The pretty lace and frill concoction is cut from a soft semi sheer and stretchy dotted chiffon and lace and features a sexy off shoulder asymmetric cut.
Fellow judge Shirley also turned heads on tonight's results show as she stepped out in a classy satin blouse in a rich emerald green colour and smart black trousers.
The 59 year old was having her breast implants removed amid cancer fears, but still managed to rock up looking sensational for the Strictly results
Similar to yesterday, she sporting a very classic, yet a no less bold, look - a trouser and blouse combo.
Tonight's results show will reveal the next celebrity to be booted off the show and join fellow voted off stars England goalie David James, presenter Dev Griffin, TV legend Anneka Rice and Olympic Rower  James Cracknell  .
Karim Zeroual and Amy Dowden soared to the top of the leaderboard after their week seven Quickstep performance last night.
At the other end of the table are Emma Barton and Anton du Beke, who finished last on the leaderboard with 22.
The nine surviving pairs now dance past the competition’s halfway mark with the highly-anticipated Blackpool Tower Ballroom episode just two routines away.
Tonight's results show kicked off with an Elton John inspired group dance, as well as a musical performance from award-winning singer and songwriter Emelie Sande, performing her single Shine.
The two couples facing the dreaded dance-off are Mike Bushell and Katya Jones against Viscountess Emma Weymouth and Aljaž Škorjanec.

        *Strictly returns next Saturday on BBC One
      
