
# Son Heung-min red card overturned after Andre Gomes challenge

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:12:18+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-son-heung-min-red-20818176)

Son Heung-min has had his red card overturned after the challenge which resulted in Andre Gomes' horrific ankle injury on Sunday.
The South Korean was left distraught and has been offered counselling after the seemingly innocuous challenge which led to the Everton player suffering a fracture dislocation of his right ankle.
Referee Martin Atkinson initially reached for a yellow card before brandishing a red when the damage done to the unfortunate Gomes became apparent.
But the decision has been overturned by an independent panel after Spurs launched an appeal, meaning Son will be available for their next three Premier League games against Sheffield United, West Ham and Bournemouth .
 
Gomes fell awkwardly into Sergie Aurier after the mistimed sliding tackle from Son, being left in agony on the pitch.
He underwent successful surgery on Monday and was released from hospital today as he is expected to make a full recovery.
Son, meanwhile, has travelled to Belgrade with his Tottenham team-mates ahead of Wednesday's Champions League tie after the club checked on his wellbeing.
He is understood to have been offered counselling after being left inconsolable and having to be led off the pitch after the incident.
After the red card, the Premier League confirmed Son was sent off for "endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge".
Team-mate Dele Alli, who opened the scoring before Cenk Tosun struck a late equaliser, revealed Son could "barely lift his head up" in the dressing room after the match.
"Son is devastated and in tears," Alli told Sky Sports. "It’s not his fault. Son is one of nicest people you’ve ever met. He can’t even lift his head up, he’s crying so much."
