
# One or 100 matches, it is an honour to lead: Rohit Sharma

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:09:50+00:00**

Author: **TNN**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/one-or-100-matches-it-is-an-honour-to-lead-rohit-sharma/articleshow/71846228.cms)

NEW DELHI: Rohit Sharma has enjoyed a successful run as a limited-overs captain, both for India and Mumbai Indians, so much so that at one point, there was even talk of splitting the Indian captaincy across formats.
Rohit's captaincy will be under focus once again in the T20I series against Bangladesh, in which he will stand in for regular skipper Virat Kohli, who has been rested.
"These things (captaincy) are not in our hands. One or 100 matches, it is an honour. When we were growing up, it was all about playing for the country. I have captained the team and the experience has been good and I don't think about for how long I should be made captain. Whenever I get the chance to captain the team, I try and enjoy that," Rohit said at a promotional event here on Thursday.
Incidentally, last year when the captaincy question was popped to him after he led India to the Asia Cup title, Rohit had replied with a smile: "Now that we have won, I must be ready. Whenever the opportunity comes, I'll be ready."
Rohit has been very vocal about giving players a longer rope, something the team management has now taken note of.
Even as Rohit is just a couple of days away from leading the team in a T20I, the buzz is more about India hosting the first day-night Test at the Eden Gardens on November 22. While there are apprehensions about the event, Rohit said he was personally looking forward to it.
"I am very excited as it is the first time. I can't say about others, but I played one match in Duleep Trophy with pink ball and it was a good experience. The opportunity has come and will try to do well.
Rohit, who will look to continue his purple patch with the bat against the Bangladeshis, said, "I always try to do well and for me, the thought is to not stop. My job is to keep performing and I see it that way. Be it Bangladesh or West Indies after that, or when we go to New Zealand," he said.

        'We were not troubled by pollution two years ago'
      
On the concerns over the pollution levels in Delhi, Rohit said, "I can't comment on the scenario. But when we played Sri Lanka in a Test match two years ago, it didn't affect us."
