
# Liam Gallagher walks off stage halfway through EMA Rock Icon acceptance speech

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:11:47+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/liam-gallagher-walks-stage-halfway-20804796)

Former Oasis rocker Liam Gallagher cut short his acceptance speech at the MTV European Music Awards in Seville this evening.
Liam, sporting his classic parka, strolled off stage after seeming like he ran out of things to say.
Hopping up onto the stage alongside host Becky G, he accepted the Rock Icon Award, becoming its first ever recipient.
"Thank you, man," he told the cheering crowds, "I won't keep you too long.
"I wanna congratulate Seville for having a great city."
Drawing cheers from the locals, he later added: "I also want to congratulate MTV for recognising my brilliance."
He closed his speech with: "Thanks for the award, I'll wear it well."
Liam turned on his heel and wandered off the stage.
Later, he finished the night with a performance of a new track, which led into the Oasis smash hit Wonderwall.
He was introduced with a montage of clips and photos from his musical career up to that point, including his Oasis days and his fallout with brother, Noel.
Their feud's become the stuff of legend, as both sides still refuse to budge more than ten years on from the end of Oasis.
They were known for their clashes during the band's heyday in the nineties, but a 2009 confrontation proved too much and the brothers called it quits on their joint ambitions.
He shared how the bitterness has affected his mum, saying: "If, God forbid, something happens to my mam, and we haven't made up by then, then there will be war, because there's been so many opportunities on his behalf.
"It's not about getting the band back together, I'm not arsed about that. It's just about going, 'Look, let's go for a beer, let's have a chat or whatever.'
"And obviously I say s**t in the press and he says stuff, and his missus says something and I say something and it's all childish and we should all grow up and all that, but at the end of the day, basically it's down to him, you know what I mean?"
