
# Royal Navy sends patrol ship HMS Forth to protect the Falklands

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:29:51+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/royal-navy-sends-patrol-ship-3502027)

Royal Navy next-generation patrol ship HMS Forth is heading for the Falkland Islands, where she will act as the main protector of the British South Atlantic territories.
HMS Forth has left Portsmouth Naval Base for the Falklands, where she will take over from HMS Clyde.
The mission to the islands is a long-term deployment for the British Royal Navy's Batch II River-class patrol vessel and marks a major milestone in the UK's protection of the islands.
HMS Clyde has been offering protection in the region for the last 12 years. HMS Forth is expected to spend several years in her key new role.
HMS Forth's commanding officer, Commander Bob Laverty, said: “Today is a momentous day for the River-class.
"I am extremely proud of my ship’s company for their efforts over the past two years in getting us to this point and grateful to the entire enterprise for their support and perseverance throughout our generation as a first-of-class warship.”
Three more Batch II Offshore Patrol Vessels, which can land and refuel Wildcat and Merlin helicopters, are due to join the Royal Navy fleet by the end of 2021. 
Fishery Protection Squadron head commander Simon Pressdee added: “Forth continues to pave the way for the class.
"We fully expect her to spend most of her time at sea on operations with only a fraction of the time spent in maintenance, while her crew will rotate to and from the UK.
“The ability to deploy these ships while maintaining a vital work-life balance is what proves so popular with both those who task them – and those who serve on them.”
The Royal Navy has confirmed that HMS Forth will remain deployed overseas "for a number of years".
