
# Castle Douglas runner Dougie Milligan claims his sixth Scottish Hill Running CHampionship

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:59:28+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Gillespie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stuart-gillespie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/castle-douglas-runner-dougie-milligan-20817573)

Dougie Milligan has claimed his sixth Scottish Hill Running Championship.
The 73-year-old from Castle Douglas finished first in his class in the final round in the Highlands to take the Vet-70 category for the third year running.
Dougie, who represents Solway Running Club, said: “It’s my sixth Scottish championship. I’ve won three Vet 60 titles and now won three Vet 70 titles and I’ve also finished fourth in the World Championships twice so I’ve done all right!”
Competitors at in the Vet 70 category can compete in any four of the six races that make up the championship.
Dougie started his campaign on familiar territory in April as he finished first in his class on Screel Hill Race.
 
In July it was on to An Teallach on Wester Ross where Dougie found things difficult, his shoe coming off early on after he was clipped by another runner.
To add to his problems, it was misty and the local mountain rescue team was needed to help some competitors, but he still recovered to finish third.
After that it was Creag Dhubh Hill Race at Newtonmore Highland Games in August. This round was part of both the British and Scottish Championship and Dougie found it difficult to pass on the tight route. Nonetheless, he still finished second.

        And he clinched the title in style at Meall a`Bhuachaille near Aviemore, snow and ice failing to stop him winning his class and the championship.
      
