
# 'More' - Ex-Manchester United boss makes Celtic and Aston Villa claim

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:17:40+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/david-moyes-aston-villa-celtic-17202204)

David Moyes has revealed how close he came to landing the Aston Villa job.
Moyes was understood to have been on the shortlist to take over at Villa Park following the club's relegation to the Championship in 2016.
The Scot eventually linked up with Sunderland and oversaw a relegation campaign that took them out of the Premier League following several near-misses.
Villa were looking for a replacement for Remi Garde, the Frenchman sacked in March 2016 after just 147 days in charge at the club having replaced

        Tim Sherwood
      
.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Moyes was reported to have impressed former owner Dr Tony Xia, but the Chinese businessman opted to hire Roberto Di Matteo instead - the Italian sacked after only 12 matches.
Former Manchester United manager Moyes, who was most recently in charge at West Ham United, says he also met with Celtic and Everton as well as Villa.
"Yes (it's true)," Moyes told the BBC.
"And more.
"Before I took the Sunderland job on I had also met Celtic and I had also met Everton, around that time as well.
