
# The original Google Pixel will get one more update in December

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:56:00+00:00**

Author: **Joe Fedewa**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/original-google-pixel-update-december-2019/)

Yesterday, Google released the November Android security patches for the Pixel family of phones. Well, they released it for all the Pixel phones except two: the original Google Pixel and Pixel XL. This marked the end of the three years of promised security updates. Google made this update timeline clear when the phones were launched back in 2016, but people were still a little upset about it. Turns out Google has one more update in store.
Google told The Verge that the original Pixel and Pixel XL will not be getting the November update, but there is one more update planned. Next month, Google will roll out an update that “encapsulates a variety of updates” from the November and December patches. Why aren’t they updating it each month like normal? Good question.

        Google Pixel XDA Forums | Google Pixel XL XDA Forums
      
As mentioned earlier, some people were upset about Google ending security updates for the Pixel and Pixel XL. This is partly due to Google rolling out Android 10 to the original Pixel family, which went beyond the promised two Android version updates. That led some to assume the monthly updates would also continue past the promised three years. That does not seem to be the case, however, so make peace with the December update being the last.

        Source: The Verge
      
