
# Professional footballer arrested for 'trying to blackmail his manager'

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:33:55+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/professional-footballer-arrested-trying-blackmail-20821946)

A professional football has been arrested for allegedly trying to blackmail his manager.
The 34-year-old player is said to have tried to help take thousands of pounds from his manager by making threats about his wife and children, in relation to a betting account.
The footballer, who cannot be named due to legal reasons, has now been released by the club after he was arrested on suspicion of blackmail.
The player, who denies the allegations, is also accused of telling the people chasing the money the location of the manager on the nights before away games.
He was questioned by detectives and has since been bailed - with two police forces assisting in the investigation.
A spokesperson for the force leading the probe told the Daily Mail: "Detectives investigating an allegation of blackmail arrested a 34-year-old man on suspicion of blackmail. He has been released under investigation while enquiries continue."
The new case comes after three men were acquitted of conspiring to blackmail a Premier League footballer - although the two cases are not linked.
The star was caught in bed with a woman, Natalie Wood, who was not his partner, after Nathan Coleman and Prince Rowe burst into his hotel room.
It was alleged the men planned to film the pair to sell the story. But they gave evidence that they just went to see if it really was the footballer in question.
A jury heard the men burst into the room, causing the football player - clad only in underwear - to jump out of a window and escape from a fire escape.
The player, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, received a message from Wood threatening to expose him.
Nathan, 38, brother Tyrone, 34, and Rowe were acquitted of conspiracy to blackmail following a trial. Nathan was also acquitted of three theft charges.
Rowe, 37, of Birmingham, was convicted of two counts of theft, over a tracksuit and £24,000 Rolex watch left by the star.
Wood – who previously admitted ­blackmail – will be sentenced with Rowe next month.
