
# Liverpool told to complete stunning Chelsea transfer after beating Aston Villa

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:24:50+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/liverpool-kante-transfer-aston-villa-17194226)

Jurgen Klopp has been told Chelsea midfielder N’Golo Kante is one of the ‘final pieces’ in his Liverpool jigsaw.
The Reds extended their lead at the top of the Premier League to six points with a 2-1 win over Aston Villa on Saturday.
Villa went ahead through Trezeguet before Liverpool hit back with two late goals, courtesy of Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane, to steal all three points.
They are now six points clear of Manchester City but former Anfield midfielder Jason McAteer reckons there is still room for improvement.
Liverpool fans were purring over John McGinn on social media but according to McAteer, iKante is the ideal target for his ex-employers to pursue having impressed for Chelsea since joining the club from Leicester City three years ago.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
McAteer told the Racing Post: “Kante is definitely one of the final pieces in Jurgen Klopp's jigsaw.
“The role of the holding midfielder has developed in modern times and Liverpool boast one of the best in the business in Fabinho.
“He took time to settle at Anfield but was taken out of the team and given time on the training ground and has now slotted back in seamlessly.
 
“He just gets it, gives it and doesn't do anything flamboyant, though it took him a while to learn the role. And that's exactly what he's doing. His awareness of danger is fantastic.
“He and N'Golo Kante at Chelsea are the two best players in the Premier League playing that role.”
