
# Jurgen Klopp sends message to Liverpool stars ahead of heavyweight world title fight

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:08:11+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-sends-message-liverpool-20814273)

Jurgen Klopp says his Liverpool players can't afford to be complacent against Genk because every Champions League game is a "heavyweight world title fight" to the finish.
The European champions beat Tuesday night's opponents 4-1 in Belgium a fortnight ago, and welcome them to Anfield seeking a third straight European victory as they look to defend their crown.
While it may be tempting for his players to shift their focus to Sunday's titanic Premier League clash with Manchester City , Klopp is warning that any lack of focus could lead to them facing a winner-takes-all final group stage match, just as they did last season.
The Reds very nearly didn't even make the knockout stages as they relied on a late Alisson Becker save against Napoli to secure qualification, and Klopp is hoping that they've learned from their near miss.
“There is work for us to do tonight and we cannot and must not have our focus anywhere but here. We must be in the moment," Klopp wrote in his matchday programme notes for the Genk clash.
“We saw just how tight the group was last season. The very last kick of the very last group game could have put us out.
"If you for even half-a-second lose sight of how hard this competition is and how precious each and every point is, trust me, we will not have the experiences like we enjoyed the last couple of seasons.
“A Champions League game, be it group or knockout, is a heavyweight world title fight every time. Every team you face has the quality to beat you and to knock you to the canvas. These teams don’t just have a puncher’s chance, they are winners with a winner’s approach.
“If you have the wrong attitude or the wrong mindset you will lose. There is no question of this."
The Anfield clash kicks off at 8pm GMT.
