
# New Free Content, Including New Maps, Coming To ‘Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare’ Tomorrow

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erik Kain**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2019/11/07/new-free-content-including-new-maps-coming-to-call-of-duty-modern-warfare-tomorrow/)

Well that was fast! Activision and Infinity Ward announced two new maps and a new game mode are coming to Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare tomorrow, Friday November 8th.
The new content is free to all players who own the game and is releasing on PS4, Xbox One and PC at the exact same time. This is all a huge, much-needed and very positive change from the previous games in this series which almost always had some kind of platform exclusivity deal in place.
The new maps are:
The classic mode Hardpoint is also coming to the game’s rotation. In Hardpoint players have to capture a “Hardpoint” and hold it for a certain amount of time while the other team tries to take it back. You get points while you’re holding the Hardpoint, so the team with the most time on the Hardpoint (which bounces around the map) wins. Good times.
Infinity Ward will also be releasing a patch which should hopefully take care of some weapon balancing issues and bugs. Maybe nerf the 725’s range a bit, guys? There’s no word on what this update will contain or how large it will be or if you’ll have to reinstall the damn shaders again. All we know is what ShutterMunster, an Art Lead at Activision, said at ResetEra. The new maps will be accompanied by an update with “tuning adjustments.”
There will be more information available tomorrow when the content goes live.
