
# The Importance Of Developing Leadership Skills For Marketing Experts

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **William Craig**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/williamcraig/2019/11/05/the-importance-of-developing-leadership-skills-for-marketing-experts/)

When you think about leadership skills and who benefits from mastering them, marketing teams may not be the first to spring to mind. The truth is, leadership is universal. We all gain from improving our understanding and ability to wield it.If you want to become a leader, you need to understand the assortment of skills that comes with it.
Social media websites — and with it, sales channels — have exploded in recent years. In 2010, there were 970 million social network users worldwide. Today, there are more than 2.8 billion. As a result, marketing teams are integral to an organization's success. They're in a position of leadership by default. Many look to them for instruction in emerging techniques and technological nuances.
Like other leaders, marketers need to take initiative and exercise decisiveness. In some cases, there’s a limited window of opportunity to take action. Marketers need to know how to seize the moment.
Marketing experts must be able to lead others to the desired action. In the industry, this means mastering topics like:
Good managers compel their teams to try new things and challenge themselves. It’s not about exercising force — it’s about getting people fired up about an idea. Leaders can explain something's value in a compelling, straightforward way.
High-level careers of any kind require critical thinking and boundless creativity. The two traits complement and balance the other. CEOs and managers must objectively look at a problem from all vantage points, which can be challenging to do as expertise in an area grows. It's crucial to surround yourself with people whose strengths complement your blind spots.
Marketers apply the data at their disposal to their creative work. Data takes the form of reports, keyword research, competitor info and intimate knowledge of current and emerging trends. Leaders can use this data to sell a vision to others that's grounded in logic.
Quality communication is vital in the life of any marketer. Perhaps you're sending an outreach email to a desirable publication? Maybe you're trying to write inspiring product copy. You might even be working on a sales task, like cold-calling, upselling or talking to a client. No matter your goal, communication is the key to standing out.
Excellent communication is the cornerstone of successful leadership. Leaders must possess a high degree of skill and awareness in body language, writing skills, their presence. They must also know when to talk and when to listen.
If you want your organization, including the marketing team, to foster great leaders, there are four steps you can take:
Everyone can benefit from regular training on the fundamental qualities of leadership. When it comes to business, we tend to promote leadership skills in those who head teams. Yet it doesn't need to be this way.
Teach your marketing experts the core traits of leadership. Implement a process where workers can make decisions in the name of progress. Engage everyone in the process and instill a desire to take action. You should also find a healthy balance in communication — one where you both talk and listen. With leadership skills in their arsenal, marketing teams can skyrocket toward success.
