
# Are Airlines About To Figure Out The Fastest Way To Board A Plane?

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Suzanne Rowan Kelleher**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/suzannerowankelleher/2019/11/02/are-airlines-about-to-figure-out-the-fastest-way-to-board-a-plane/)

Oh, the irony. The airline industry knows how to fly jet planes, but can’t come up with a fast and efficient way to load passengers on a plane. Is it quicker to load passengers from the back of the plane to the front, as many airlines do? Or should the pattern be staggered, with incoming passengers skipping rows? Or is it faster to employ the so-called "WILMA" method — boarding passengers from the outside in, window seats first, then middles, then aisles?
Gatwick Airport aims to find out. At Departure Gate 101, the London airport has started using large digital screens to tell passengers the precise order in which to board. Over the two-month trial period, the team will test a range of sequences to determine how make the boarding process faster and less congested. One constant is that passengers who have booked priority boarding – or those who require special assistance or are traveling with young families – will still board first during the trial.
“Early indications are that this new technique has the potential to reduce the overall boarding time,” says Abhi Chacko, Head of Enabling Technologies and Digital Innovation at Gatwick Airport. “By communicating to passengers better and boarding passengers by seat number, we also expect to make the whole boarding experience more relaxing and, potentially, prevent large numbers of passenger rushing forward at any stage.”

        But is this rocket science?
      
Gatwick anticipates that these techniques could reduce boarding times by up to 10 percent, compared to conventional methods. But that’s far less optimistic than the projections by Jason Steffen, an astrophysicist at Northwestern University, who created a computer algorithm to test different airline boarding methods over a decade ago. In 2008, Steffen’s model concluded that an optimized boarding strategy could reduce boarding time by a factor of four or more, depending on the aircraft size and configuration.
Coincidentally, 2008 was also when American Airlines began charging a fee for all checked bags, becoming the first legacy U.S. carrier to follow the lead of discount carriers like as Allegiant and Spirit. Most other major airlines quickly followed suit. As anyone who flies regularly knows, this industry policy shift has spawned millions of zealots who refuse to ever check a bag, which, in turn, has led to ubiquitous bottlenecks during the boarding process as passengers compete for overhead-bin space.

        We’ve been to this rodeo.
      
If Gatwick’s tests sound strangely familiar, maybe it’s because you’ve already seen the TV show. In 2014, the Discovery Channel’s “Mythbusters” show recruited almost 200 volunteers and used a replica airplane interior to test six methods of airplane boarding.
Spoiler: The show found the traditional back-to-front boarding method to be the slowest method by far, with a time of 24.29 minutes. Southwest Airline’s boarding method – no assigned seats, no assigned order – proved to be the fastest, at 14.07 minutes, which was a whopping 47 percent faster than back-to-front. But, crucially, the mock passengers on “Mythbusters” also deemed this free-for-all method to be the least pleasant.
The best of the bunch turned out to be the WILMA method – boarding outside in – which was a close second at 14.55 minutes and far more popular among participants. As it turns out, Steffen's method is very similar to WILMA, with one tweak: Instead of calling window-seat passengers to board all at once, it creates a choreographed sequence to eliminate the possibility of anyone ever waiting.
When Gatwick’s experiment ends, let’s see if it merely corroborates Steffen’s research and what airlines have already known for over a decade.

        READ MORE
      
