
# Rainn Wilson Talks ‘Galaxy Quest’ As It Celebrates Its 20th Anniversary

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Thompson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/simonthompson/2019/11/04/rainn-wilson-talks-galaxy-quest-as-it-celebrates-its-20th-anniversary/)

Sci-fi comedy Galaxy Quest is now considered to be a classic, but the journey to beloved status has been a long one. For some, including Rainn Wilson, the movie, which celebrates its 20th anniversary in December, changed everything.“I had just moved to L.A. when I auditioned for Galaxy Quest. That was, I believe, in April 1999 and we were shooting it by July,” the actor explained to me. “I had just moved from New York City, where I struggled for ten years doing theater and couldn’t get any job or TV work, but right away when I came out to L.A. I started getting some calls, and this was my very first film.” 
“I remember going into the audition and goofing off as an alien, and that seemed to work out. The part that I was supposed to play was much larger. I was supposed to be in the whole run up the entire movie as one of the core group of aliens. However, I had done this TV pilot, and the people behind it thought there was a chance that it would get picked up, so the Galaxy Quest guys made my part much smaller. So, that was a bummer. I’m so glad I was still about to be in it, though.”
Galaxy Quest’s eclectic ensemble cast boasted Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Alan Rickman, Tony Shalhoub, and Sam Rockwell. Wilson, the Hollywood newbie at the time, remembered his first day on the job very clearly.
“I’ll never forget when I went to the table read,” he recalled. “They don’t do that so much with feature films these days because everyone’s all over the place and so busy, but we did a sit down with the whole cast and the director, and it was amazing. Seeing all those actors bringing their roles to life was incredible. It got so many laughs. It was so funny. Being in that room as it happened was incredible, really exciting. What an incredible cast.”
Made for $45 million, Galaxy Quest grossed $90.7 million at the worldwide box office. Critics loved it, and while it wasn’t a flop, it wasn’t quite the success everyone involved had hoped for.
“It came out on Christmas Day, they turned it around quickly and got it out there, but I remember that I thought the campaign for it was just terrible,” Wilson exclaimed. “We had all seen the movie and were like, ‘Oh my God, this is so funny!’ but then it hardly made a dent in the box office. It was getting decent reviews, but it just kind of came and went. It did so poorly.” 
It arrived with a $7.01 million opening weekend. As disappointing as that was, the lackluster debut wasn’t as newsworthy as it might have been, he explained: “This was 1999 and box office success was not talked about as much in the late 90s. It really was in the ten years after that when people were kind of like, ‘What was its box office gross?’ and people were going around throwing around quotes how a movie had a really good opening and made $27 million in its first weekend. Back then, people didn’t take as much notice, so when Galaxy Quest fizzled out, we were disappointed, but then it was almost forgotten after that.”
“However, it’s so great that the miracles of VHS and DVD have ensured that Galaxy Quest still lives and is more popular than ever. I think, for me, a big reason it has remained popular and gained in popularity, is that it is legitimately funny. It’s also legitimately a terrific science fiction film. It hits both of those sweet spots perfectly. A movie that tries to cross genres rarely does both things equally as well.”
As well as acclaim from critics and audiences, Galaxy Quest also has, in its 20th anniversary year, the honor of being the subject of a documentary entitled Never Surrender: A Galaxy Quest Documentary. The film, produced by Fandom, will receive a limited theatrical release through Fathom Events on November 26, 2019.
Galaxy Quest’s milestone is also being marked by the release of a special edition Never Give Up, Never Surrender Steelbook Blu-ray from Paramount Pictures, which includes a slew of special features.
Now Galaxy Quest is fully appreciated, and it’s potential is realized, but if it was made and released in 2019, did Wilson think things would be different? 
“Honestly, it would absolutely not get made today, and this is a big problem in film,” the actor stated without hesitation. “What gets made today are $2 million to $4 million indies, super low budget studio films that are in the $5 million to $17 million range and then $200 million blockbusters. The idea of a $30 million, $40 million, or $50 million film with special effects and an ensemble cast, and especially one that was daring enough to mix two genres, would not get made today. Not in a million years.”
“So many of the best movies ever made of these middle budget movies that were made for $20 million to $50 million and they didn’t necessarily have the world’s biggest movie star in them. People rarely get to make those anymore because they don’t make enough money. Maybe Netflix will start making movies in that budget range. It’s a real shame.”
Wilson admitted that the effects of that are far-reaching. He clarified: “It’s negatively impacted many other actors and me because if you’re not a huge name, and you’re not part of a franchise, then it’s tough. You have to try and get into a Marvel movie, which let’s face it, a guy like me, a chubby, weird-looking 50-something guy, they probably aren’t that many roles for me in a Marvel movie. Otherwise, all that is offered are super low budget indies. That’s partly why fascinating television is happening now, and people are turning their heads that way.”
For as long as I can remember, there has been a rumor about a version of Galaxy Quest aimed at a more mature audience.
“I don’t know,” Wilson admitted. “You’d have to ask the director, Dean Parisot, or DreamWorks, but the only thing I remember about anything like that is that Tony Shalhoub’s character was supposed to be a stoner, but all that stuff got cut out. I think he was supposed to be smoking a lot of weed, and then gradually, he ended up lowkey and heavy-lidded and hungry all the time.” 
As proud as Wilson is of Galaxy Quest and his extensive resume of work to date, which includes, of course, The Office, a few things remain unticked on his career list.
“I’m probably too tall, but what about an origin story for The Penguin?” he mused. “I think I have a great villain in me somewhere, and I would love to do it. I don’t know if that would be in a superhero movie or something else. Maybe in a Bond movie? I’d love to transform, put a scar on my face, get totally serious, and look as different as humanly possible.”
And there’s one character he’d love to return to. 
“Well, it’s not my character in The Meg because I was brutally devoured at the end of that movie. Let’s convince James Gunn to make Super 2,” Wilson pitched. “I think if for my character Frank, something else happens, he has a kid, the kid gets kidnapped by some bad guys, maybe Ellen Page has a twin sister who comes back, and they team up again, or he teams up with someone else. I’d love to go back to Super.” 
“I have never mentioned that to James. I see him occasionally, we’ll have lunch or coffee and catch up, but I haven’t brought it up to him. I do know the producer of Super was like, ‘Oh, what about a Super TV show?’ That would be pretty cool, the ongoing adventures of a deranged vigilante superhero with a pipe wrench.”

        The Galaxy Quest Never Give Up, Never Surrender Special Edition Steelbook Blu-Ray is available now. 
      
