
# 'Spot on': Lawyer for Epstein accuser defends ABC News reporter Amy Robach against network

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:34:32+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/spot-on-lawyer-for-epstein-accuser-defends-abc-news-reporter-amy-robach-against-network)

A lawyer for the Jeffrey Epstein accuser whose interview with Amy Robach was squashed three years ago by ABC News defended the anchor amid her recently leaked video.
Project Veritas released a video Tuesday of Robach discussing on a hot mic the information she received years earlier from Virginia Roberts Giuffre, one of Epstein's accusers. Robach voiced her frustration about the network's refusal to run her story and alleged that Buckingham Palace had threatened them after finding out that Prince Andrew was implicated. She also expressed her belief that Epstein was murdered because of what he knew about "powerful men."
"It was unbelievable what we had. Clinton, we had everything," she said, shaking her head in disbelief. "I tried for three years to get it on to no avail. And now it's all coming out, and it's like these new revelations, and I freaking had all of it."
Giuffre's attorney, Stan Pottinger, who was involved with ABC's sit-down interview with her years ago, defended Robach and her field producer Jim Hill.
"I thought she was spot on," he told the Hollywood Reporter. "I think that she had the story. She and Jim Hill, the field producer, did a fabulous job. I don't want them tarred by anything that ABC failed to do. They did a great job. ... Our client, Virginia, had a lot of confidence in them, and still does. She likes them, she trusts them, and she has respect for them."
Robach released a statement claiming that her comments were "caught in a private moment of frustration" and added that her interview with Giuffre "didn't air because we could not obtain sufficient corroborating evidence to meet ABC's editorial standards about her allegations."
ABC also said that Robach's reporting had failed to meet the outlet's standards for publication.
Their statement reads, "At the time, not all of our reporting met our standards to air, but we have never stopped investigating the story. Ever since we’ve had a team on this investigation and substantial resources dedicated to it. That work has led to a two-hour documentary and 6-part podcast that will air in the new year."
