
# Man swept out to sea after being struck by wave walking along coast

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:21:02+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-major-search-man-swept-20806614)

A body has been found after a man was swept out to sea in Dorset.
He is believed to have been walking along the beach with a woman when they were both dragged out to sea by a wave in Bridport.
Emergency services were called shortly before 3pm yesterday as worried onlookers reported a man, in his 20s, was in the water close to Freshwater Beach Holiday Park.
The woman managed to get back to the shore, but the man has not been seen since.
She was treated by the ambulance service.
A search operation has been launched by HM Coastguard, the RNLI, the NPAS helicopter and the ambulance service.

        Have you been affected by this incident? Email webnews@mirror.co.uk
      
 
In a statement after it happened, police said: "Officers have been carrying out searches for a man who has gone missing in the water in the Bridport area.
"Dorset Police was called at 2.55pm on Sunday 3 November 2019 to a report of concern for welfare of a man in the water near to Freshwater Beach Holiday Park.
"It is reported that the man was walking along the beach with a woman when a wave swept them out to sea.
"The woman made it back to shore and was treated by the ambulance service.
"Officers have been carrying out extensive searches throughout the day to try and locate the man, assisted by HM Coastguard, the NPAS helicopter, the RNLI and the ambulance service."
We'll be bringing you the very latest updates, pictures and video on this breaking news story.
