
# Chiefs: The Driving Energy Inside The Club

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/middendorp-lifts-lid-on-reason-behind-kaizer-chiefs-good-start/666678)

Kaizer Chiefs coach Ernst Middendorp has lifted the lid on the behind the scenes transformation at the club to have gone from losing the Nedbank Cup and finishing outside the Top 8 last season to being early pace setters the next.
Amakhosi booked a spot in the semifinals of the Telkom Knockout at the weekend by beating rivals Orlando Pirates on penalties after playing out to a 2-2 draw during open play at the Moses Mabhida Stadium and will now face Maritzburg United. 

        Read: Desperate Plea To PSL 
      
And with the Glamour Boys also currently five points clear at the top of the Absa Premiership table, they appear the Chiefs of old, though Middendorp is clear they’ve not achieved anything just yet and must stay focused.
“It’s too long a story. I can only say that, ironically, when I was sitting here on the 18th of May (Nedbank Cup final), we already had a clear target. And it was only one target, to change and look into things, but in the right way,” he told reporters.  
“As you have seen, some players went out and we reduced the numbers. If you think everything is fantastic, I can tell you it’s not. We can do a lot of things better. If you want a sustainable structure for success, don’t be quiet, be stubborn and that is my personal character and mindset. We have to challenge ourselves, not just satisfied because we’ve made it to the next round, and I think that is good and it’s the driving energy inside the club. It’s not a one-man show and I have said it already. Sometimes it’s critical and difficult to listen to each other, but that is what we have to do.”

        Read: 'Pirates Don't Need This Coach' 
      

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
