
# Hailee Steinfeld May Not Play Hawkeye’s Kate Bishop After All

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:21:28+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471046-hailee-steinfeld-raises-doubts-on-her-marvel-hawkeye-disney-plus-kate-bishop)

It seems that the wait to know who will portray Kate Bishop in Hawkeye is far from being over. In the last few weeks, Bumblebee star Hailee Steinfeld has been reportedly attached to the character who will inherit the title character’s mantle from Jeremy Renner’s Clint Barton. Speaking with RadioTimes.com, though, Steinfeld has cast some doubts on her future involvement in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.
“That’s not something that’s necessarily happening,” Steinfeld said. “We’re going to wait and find out, I guess.”
Steinfeld will next appear as poet Emily Dickinson in an Apple TV+ series. Her role in Dickinson could leave her unable to take on another big TV role, though. According to Radio Times, Marvel is still negotiating with Steinfeld’s team to have her on board.
Should they seal the deal, this will hardly be Steinfeld’s first foray into the comic-book movie universe. She recently lent her voice to 2018’s Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse as Gwen Stacy, and she will likely reprise her role in the film’s upcoming sequel.
The Hawkeye series will see Jeremy Renner reprising his role as Clint Barton. Additionally, the story will introduce his protege Kate Bishop as a possible successor. Disney is developing multiple limited series featuring characters from the Marvel Cinematic Universe, with The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, Loki and WandaVision being three of the shows in development at the moment. Anthony Mackie, Sebastian Stan, Tom Hiddleston and Elizabeth Olsen will reprise their roles for their respective series as well.
Hawkeye is currently targeting a Fall 2021 premiere date. Would you like to see Hailee Steinfeld as Kate Bishop on Marvel’s Hawkeye series? Let us know in the comment section below!
