
# Detection of a strange particle

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Taku Yamanaka**

Original: [Nature](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-02841-9)

In the late 1940s, the physicists George Rochester and Clifford Butler [1] observed something unusual in their charged-particle detector. They were studying the interactions between high-energy cosmic rays and a lead plate in the detector when they spotted V-shaped particle tracks (Fig. 1a). The small gap between the lead plate and the vertex of the tracks indicated that an invisible neutral particle had been produced in the plate, had travelled for a short distance and had then decayed into two visible charged particles. The mass of the neutral particle was about 1,000 times that of an electron, implying that it must be a previously unreported type of particle. This discovery paved the way for many puzzles and surprises in particle physics in the decades that followed.
At the time of Rochester and Butler’s work, protons, neutrons, electrons and particles called pions (short for π mesons) had been identified, and were known to be sufficient to form atoms. Pions were proposed [2] in 1935 to explain how protons and neutrons are held together in small atomic nuclei by the strong nuclear force, and were found experimentally [3] [,] [4] in 1947.
While searching for a pion in cosmic rays, scientists discovered a different particle [5], which is now called a muon. A heavy charged particle was then found [6] in 1944, followed by Rochester and Butler’s unstable neutral particle. But the discovery of unexpected particles did not stop there. Then came the τ meson, which decays into three pions; the θ meson, decaying into two pions; the κ meson, decaying into a muon and an invisible particle; the Λ [0] particle, decaying into a proton and a pion; and the list goes on.
In the early 1950s, researchers began producing these rare particles in large quantities by firing protons at targets in particle accelerators. The τ, θ and κ mesons and Λ [0] particle were peculiar, because, although they were generated by the strong force, their decay times were much longer than those expected for this force. To explain these observations, physicists proposed a quantity, known as strangeness (S), that is conserved by the strong force [7] [,] [8].
Protons and neutrons have S = 0, and through the strong force, can produce a pair of strange particles that have S = –1 and S = +1, so that total strangeness is conserved. However, a strange particle that has S = –1, for example, cannot decay into particles that have S = 0 through the strong force, because strangeness would not be conserved. Instead, this decay must occur much more slowly through the weak nuclear force, which allows total strangeness to change.
As the accuracy of accelerator-based measurements increased, it became clear that the τ and θ mesons had extremely similar masses and lifetimes. Scientists concluded that these mesons must be the same particle, which is able to decay into two or three pions. The mess of strange mesons was finally cleaned up into four particles dubbed kaons (short for K mesons): K [+] and K [0] and their antiparticles K [–] and K [—0].
However, accepting that the τ and θ mesons were the same particle raised another problem. A state of two pions has even parity, which means that its wavefunction does not change sign under a parity transformation (in which spatial coordinates are flipped). By contrast, a state of three pions has odd parity. If the same particle could decay into two or three pions, did that mean that, contrary to all conventional wisdom, parity is not conserved by the weak force? This question, known as the τ–θ puzzle, led to the discovery, in 1957, of such parity-symmetry breaking in cobalt-60 decays [9] and in pion decays [10].
A consequence of parity-symmetry breaking by the weak force is that elementary particles called neutrinos can be only left-handed, which means that their motion and intrinsic angular momentum are in opposite directions. Under a parity transformation, a left-handed neutrino becomes a right-handed neutrino, which does not exist. However, if one then applies a charge-conjugation transformation (in which particles are replaced by their antiparticles), the right-handed neutrino becomes a right-handed antineutrino, which does exist. The weak force therefore seemed to conserve CP symmetry (symmetry under a combined charge-conjugation and parity transformation), until such symmetry was found to be broken in neutral-kaon decays.
A neutral kaon is a mixture of K [0] and K [—0] states, and can exist as the CP-even state Keven or the CP-odd state Kodd. The lifetime of Kodd is much longer than that of Keven, so these particles were named KL (for ‘K-long’) and KS (for ‘K-short’), respectively. A useful consequence of such lifetimes is that, if neutral kaons are produced by firing protons at a target, the CP-even KS component quickly decays, leaving only the CP-odd KL component. In 1964, such KL particles were observed [11] to decay into the CP-even state of two oppositely charged pions (π [+]π [–]). Therefore, despite expectations, CP symmetry was shown to be broken.
In that same year, physicists proposed a model [12] [,] [13] to explain all of the known mesons and baryons — a family that includes protons, neutrons and the Λ [0] particle. In the model, these mesons and baryons consist of elementary particles known as quarks, which come in three types: up, down and strange (Fig. 1b).
In 1973, a theoretical model [14] showed that the breaking of CP symmetry could be explained by introducing three more quarks: charm, top and bottom. In this framework, KL can have a small component of Keven that can decay into the CP-even π [+]π [–] state. But unlike other theoretical models, this framework also allows Kodd to decay into the CP-even state (direct CP violation).
Many generations of experiments then were carried out to see whether direct CP violation exists. The measurement required extremely high precision, and after many improvements over 25 years, direct CP violation was finally confirmed [15] [,] [16]. Together with the observation of CP-symmetry breaking in B mesons (mesons that contain a bottom quark) [17] [,] [18], the theoretical model was confirmed, and helped to establish the standard model of particle physics, which is the current explanation of the Universe’s particles and forces.
However, the standard model is not complete. For instance, it cannot explain why the Universe contains so little antimatter, nor what the mysterious substance called dark matter is. Researchers are therefore trying to search for a hint of particle physics beyond that of the standard model. For example, experiments in Japan [19] and Europe [20] are using extremely rare kaon decays to search for such a hint.
In retrospect, Rochester and Butler’s V-shaped particle tracks are thought to have been caused by a KS, produced in the lead plate, decaying into the π [+]π [–] state. Since their work, kaons have been used to discover strangeness and the breaking of parity and CP symmetries, to build the quark model and the standard model, and now to search for previously unseen particle physics. Could Rochester and Butler have ever imagined that they had opened such a treasure chest?
Nature 575, 36-38 (2019)
doi: 10.1038/d41586-019-02841-9
1. Rochester, G. D. & Butler, C. C. Nature 160, 855–857 (1947).
2. Yukawa, H. Proc. Phys.-Math. Soc. Jpn 17, 48–57 (1935).
3. Perkins, D. H. Nature 159, 126–127 (1947).
4. Lattes, C. M. G., Muirhead, H., Occhialini, G. P. S. & Powell, C. F. Nature 159, 694–697 (1947).
5. Neddermeyer, S. H. & Anderson, C. D. Phys. Rev. 51, 884–886 (1937).
6. Leprince-Ringuet, L. & L’Héritier, M. C.R. Acad. Sci. 219, 618–620 (1944).
7. Gell-Mann, M. Phys. Rev. 92, 833–834 (1953).
8. Nakano, T. & Nishijima, K. Prog. Theor. Phys. 10, 581–582 (1953).
9. Wu, C. S., Ambler, E., Hayward, R. W., Hoppes, D. D. & Hudson, R. P. Phys. Rev. 105, 1413–1415 (1957).
10. Garwin, R. L., Lederman, L. M. & Weinrich, M. Phys. Rev. 105, 1415–1417 (1957).
11. Christenson, J. H., Cronin, J. W., Fitch, V. L. & Turlay, R. Phys. Rev. Lett. 13, 138–140 (1964).
12. Gell-Mann, M. Phys. Lett. 8, 214–215 (1964).
13. Zweig, G. CERN Rep. No. CERN-TH-401 (1964).
14. Kobayashi, M. & Maskawa, T. Prog. Theor. Phys. 49, 652–657 (1973).
15. Alavi-Harati, A. et al. (KTeV Collaboration) Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 22–27 (1999).
16. The NA48 Collaboration. Eur. Phys. J. C 22, 231–254 (2001).
17. Aubert, B. et al. (BABAR Collaboration) Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 091801 (2001).
18. Abe, K. et al. (Belle Collaboration) Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 091802 (2001).
19. Ahn, J. K. et al. (KOTO Collaboration) Phys. Rev. Lett. 122, 021802 (2019).
20. The NA62 Collaboration. Phys. Lett. B 791, 156–166 (2019).
