
# 14 Personal Photos of Celebrities That Deserved the Thousands of Likes They Got

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/wonder-people/14-personal-photos-of-celebrities-that-deserved-the-thousands-of-likes-they-got-794641/)

This year, quite a few happy events have happened in the lives of some celebrities. Some of them found new love, some got married or became parents for the first time, and some got their perfect bodies back, or were successful at something. And if some celebrities prefer not to talk about their private lives, others, fortunately for their fans, share their news happily.
Bright Side has visited the Instagram pages of some famous people and chose the photos that have attracted the most attention in the past few months. Even though we don’t know Britney Spears or Anna Kournikova personally, we’re sincerely happy for them.
Britney Spears has done a lot of difficult work. You’d probably agree that today, the pop star looks far younger and more fit than she did 10 years ago. And most importantly, she looks way happier.
And her boyfriend Sam Asghari, her personal coach, helps her stay in shape. He’s probably the hottest guy Britney has ever dated!
On June 19, 2018, 43-year-old Eva Longoria had a son who she and her husband named Enrique Santiago. And several days ago, the actress shared the photo of her newborn son on her Instagram page.
The supermodel promised to donate a large sum of money to the development of football in Russia if the national team were to beat the Spanish team which actually happened.
Kylie preferred not to make the fact that she was pregnant public before her daughter Stormi was born, so she shared this cute photo of her baby with her followers.
Chrissy Teigen is famous for her funny and quick-witted answers to haters’ comments online. And these guys criticize almost everything she does, even the way she holds her son. This is probably nothing more than jealousy, and we understand why.
Here is another celebrity mother that knows how to answer to haters. She recently posted a photo of herself in a swimsuit and a follower asked where her children were at that moment. But Kourtney answered that the photo was taken by her 7-year-old son while her other 2 children were sitting next to her at the table and thanked the commenter for “their concern”.
Some fans decided that Jennifer Lopez and Alexander Rodriguez were engaged when they saw a ring on the singer’s finger. But they haven’t actually announced an engagement officially.
The star of The Big Bang Theory has recently got married for the second time and shared a photo of the wedding party with her fans where she traded in a traditional bridal gown for a jumpsuit made of the same fabric. How do you like this idea?
Several days ago, Will Smith’s son Jaden turned 20 years old. The famous father shared his son’s childhood photo where he was wearing a Spider-Man suit and was on a “date” with a girl. By the way, the girl is Jordyn Woods, a model, and Kylie Jenner’s former best friend.
Rihanna is definitely incredibly talented. She turns anything she touches into gold: she’s a great singer and owner of a successful cosmetic company. And she’s the best model for all of her products.
After a 16-year-long relationship, Anna Kournikova and Enrique Iglesias have become parents. They have 2 children who they named Nicholas and Lucy.
Just like many other celebrities, Anna decided not to mention her pregnancy to the public but after she gave birth, she shared her pregnancy photos on her Instagram page.
Plus-size model Ashley Graham, unlike her haters, is so confident that she’s not afraid of taking part in photoshoots where photos are not post-edited. In fact, most women have cellulite —even those that don’t carry extra weight — it’s just that most of them don’t talk about it.
Actress America Ferrera, who most viewers remember for her role in Ugly Betty, has also become a mother this year. She shared a moving photo of her son’s foot and revealed that she and her husband named their son Sebastian Piers Williams, a.k.a. Baz!
In the caption for this photo, Dwayne admitted that he really enjoys feeding his wife while she is busy feeding their daughter, Tia.
And right after their daughter was born, the happy father shared his photo with a long caption about the love, respect, and admiration he had for his other half and all other mothers around the world.
Also, the actor recommended that men be there for their wives when they deliver babies and support them in all ways possible during the difficult task.
Which of these events seems to be the most significant to you?
Preview photo credit therock / Instagram, chrissyteigen / Instagram
