
# Majority of registered voters say Trump likely to win second term, poll finds

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:15:48+00:00**

Author: **William Cummings, USA TODAY**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/majority-registered-voters-trump-likely-160605075.html)

WASHINGTON – Forty percent of registered voters approve of the job President Donald Trump is doing in office, but more than half of them expect him to win reelection, according to a Politico-Morning Consult poll released Wednesday.
Overall, 56% of voters say it is likely Trump will win a second term – 27% say it is "very likely" and 29% say it is "somewhat likely." 
The prospect of four more years of a Trump presidency has energized voters in both parties: 70% of respondents say they are "absolutely certain to vote" in their primary or caucus, and 14% say they are "very likely" to vote. Eighty-one percent say they are "very likely" to vote in the general election, and 11% say they are "somewhat likely" to vote. 
Sixty percent say Trump will be on their mind when they cast their ballot; 41% say they will be thinking about him "a lot." 

        Outlier? 
        Trump trails Biden, Warren, Sanders, Harris, Buttigieg by double-digit margins in new poll
      

        More: 
        Biden leads Trump in battleground states, but Warren does not, poll finds
      
"President Trump’s reelection prospects seem to be energizing voter enthusiasm across the political spectrum," Morning Consult’s Vice President Tyler Sinclair says. "Our data points show that Republicans and Democrats are equally inclined to say they are motivated and likely to vote in next year’s election."
Forty-seven percent say they support impeaching Trump and removing him from office, and 43% say they oppose such a step. 
The poll asked voters about their emotions surrounding the 2020 election. A 73% majority say they are interested, and 18% say they are bored. Sixty-three percent say they are hopeful, 53% say they are worried, 52% say they are frustrated, 48% say they are confident and 40% say they are angry. 
When asked to pick one feeling about the election, respondents are hopeful (21%) and worried (18%). 

        'I have the real polls': 
        Trump calls Fox News polls 'lousy' after survey finds 49% support impeachment
      

        Who is winning the 2020 vote?: 
        Biden is the top pick for Latino voters eager to oust Trump
      

        This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Election 2020: Trump likely to win reelection, majority of voters say
      
