
# Singer, Songwriter, Future Businesswoman: Inside The World Of Sabrina Claudio

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ogden Payne**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ogdenpayne/2019/11/04/singer-songwriter-businesswoman-inside-the-world-of-sabrina-claudio/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Sabrina Claudio refused to continue her show until a fan who passed out, circumstances unknown, was taken care of. The ordeal took more than five minutes of showtime but the health and safety of her supporters were non-negotiable. Before headlining her own international tour became reality, she romanticized about what it would be like to hear swarms of people repeating even her most intimate lyrics back to her. At 17, her talent was so promising that her parents moved the family from Miami to Los Angeles to allow her to pursue her passion.
“They believed in my dream more than I did at the time,” she admitted. 
But insecurity riddled Claudio’s adolescence. She labeled her younger self as a sad soul. She was a girl who had difficulty making friends and preferred to lock herself in her room, communicating with lyrics.
Claudio, now 23, has seemingly grown out of her shell. On stage, she struts confidently in a thin and beaded black bodysuit - it didn’t stand a chance at fighting Austin’s cold front that night. For the hour-and-a-half she held the microphone, she made the rules. 
Backstage, she was just as poised and in control. Despite a lengthy performance and an hours-long trek from New Orleans earlier in the day, she sat upright in a black leather chair, legs crossed, ready for questioning. 
“When I first started writing, when I was 15, I would go to work with people and they would tell me my lyrics were too mature for my age!” she revealed. “I’ve always had a maturity within my writing. I’m growing as a woman and I’m able to write about things that I wanted to write about when I was younger.”
Claudio’s sophomore album, Truth Is, is her fourth release in two years. The 38-minute project is riddled with intimate ballads about emotional dishonesty, sensual envy, and undying loyalty. She admitted that many of the narratives in her discography are inspired by the experiences of others. Her best work comes when she’s comfortably sequestered in a studio with limited distractions.
“This is ‘me’ time, this is my therapy,” she said about her writing process. “Don’t bother me, let me take my time. It’s gonna happen when it happens.” 
But Claudio’s cuts have yet to resonate on the radio. She confessed that she’s fallen victim to comparing her successes to others’. It wasn’t until this year that she found serenity in simplicity, like uninterrupted dinners and financial stability. 
“I’m really happy doing normal things,” she said. 
She eventually wants to pass off songs she writes to others. Expanding her brand into a clothing line, specifically lingerie, is a likely business venture, too. But Sabrina Claudio’s definition of success lies somewhere between ambition and contentment.
“We’re going to keep growing, but if this is it, I think I’m good.”
