
# Why Are So Many Of Us Still Working As Though This Were The Last Century?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Enrique Dans**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/enriquedans/2019/11/06/why-are-so-many-of-us-still-working-as-though-this-were-the-lastcentury/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

After a lengthy campaign, workers at Inditex, the company behind fashion mega-retailer Zara, have finally won the right to leave work on Fridays at 3pm (link in Spanish), as well as choosing to work either a 9 am to 6.30 pm or a 9.30 am to 7.00 pm shift, and have been given transport options. A milestone for employees of the Spanish multinational, but that barely reflects the growing trend toward flexible working hours already widespread in many sectors.Companies such as Microsoft, for example, have gone much further, proving that a four-day week and three-day weekend results in much higher productivity, greater job satisfaction and lower energy costs. In short, working fewer hours seems to increase productivity.
In many cases, reducing the working week to four days and maintaining the same pay is the logical result of the superior productivity of robots. In other cases, it reflects a need to reduce emissions in response to tougher environmental policies, and in others, simply to reduce stress. In one way or another, even business leaders who have advocated the infamous 996–9 am to 9 pm six days working week — like Jack Ma, now speculate that we’ll soon be working 12-hours a week. The idea of working fewer hours more productively while reducing environmental impact, is taking hold throughout the business world.
The growing recognition of the benefits of a shorter working week coincides with another trend: that of working from home. As connectivity technologies improve and bandwidth broadens into 5G, creating virtual teams that allow people to work from where they want is a way to attract and retain talent, to reduce the stress and lower productivity associated with commuting, and to help us define and adapt our working hours. Behind all this is the argument that if you need to set an alarm clock to establish when we should work, something is wrong: our body clock is out of sync, lowering our potential productivity. Allowing people to work from home will improve productivity, increase job satisfaction and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Many people’s relationship with work is going to change radically in the coming years. Why do we cling to policies created during the industrial revolution, when the type of jobs we performed were significantly different and depended, for example, on the availability of a particular machine or the need to coordinate and communicate in person? Why do bosses still overwhelmingly prefer to see their employees enter and leave at a specific time? Why force someone to sit in a traffic jam or strap hang for more than two hours a day when they could use that time more profitably by working from home? When technology enables us to work efficiently from anywhere, maintaining outdated habits simply “because we’ve always done it that way” is pretty dumb. There are alternatives. And many of them may not only be a good idea, but a way to help improve many other issues.
