
# Inside Instagram star Natasha Oakley’s business empire and new capsule collection for Nasty Gal

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:14:00+00:00**

Author: **Nadia Salemme, News Corp Australia Network**

Original: [The Daily Telegraph](https://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/lifestyle/fashion/inside-instagram-star-natasha-oakleys-business-empire-and-new-capsule-collection-for-nasty-gal/news-story/869771fa63e2458bdffb9f6aa0415d44)

She’s known for her swimsuit brand, huge social media presence (two million followers and counting), and a bikini-a-day empire.  
Natasha Oakley is one of the most famous – and influential – faces on Instagram.
The Australian model, designer and entrepreneur launched her own swim brand, Monday Swimwear, in 2014 with business partner and BFF Devin Brugman.
The Los Angeles-based duo have been written about by Forbes and partnered with some of the world’s hottest brands, including Revolve. 
Now, Australian Oakley, 29, is unveiling her latest venture – a capsule collection with fashion chain, Nasty Gal.
Inspired by the movie Pretty Woman, the 30-piece summery collection is priced from 
$56 to $112, with a diverse size range from a 4 to 24.
“My collection with Nasty Gal is designed to be flattering on different body types,” Oakley said.
Julia Roberts’ outfits in Pretty Woman were a key source of inspo for the range, which features spotty dresses, wide-legged pants and crochet cover-ups, as well as bikinis and one-pieces.
“In its era, it was one of the most inspiring and fashionable movies,” Oakley said. “Julia Roberts is such a fashion icon and naturally beautiful – every outfit in that movie has been replicated in some way.
“When she’s at the races in that polka dot dress. I can’t think of many other movies that people are so inspired by, in terms of the styling.”
This is the latest step in Oakley’s growing business and personal branding empire. So in the world of collaborations and sponsored posts, how does she stay true to herself?
“One of the biggest lessons I learnt early on was to stay strong in my vision as a designer and in my own beliefs, in my own branding, and make sure that everything I do is a direct reflection of that,” Oakley said, during her current trip home to Sydney.
“You do need to be really direct about the way you want things to be.
“Any collaboration I’ve every been a part of, any business deal, any campaign, I really make sure to be clear on what I want it to be.
“Nothing that we ever do looks out of the ordinary for us – it’s a direct reflection of myself and Devin, in reference to Monday (Swimwear).”

        MORE NEWS
      

        
          SUPERMODEL’S BIZARRE LOPSIDED OUTFIT
        
      

        
          VS MODEL ‘DOESN’T EDIT’ PHOTOS
        
      
As for her influential personal style, Oakley said she likes a “timeless and feminine” feel.
“I’m not really the type to go out there and do anything crazy or too ‘on trend’.
“They’re versatile pieces, really wearable, and feminine.
“There’s a white pant set with a top that I’m obsessed with – it’s a little bit of a Pretty Woman-esque Scarface vibe, which is another iconic movie in terms of style,” Oakley added, referencing the Al Pacino gangster classic.
While Oakley has been spending more time in her home town of Sydney this year, her permanent base is in Los Angeles. Though more often than not, you can find her jetsetting.
“Sometimes, I can do 23 trips and this year I have probably done less than usual, because we’ve been very selective with out partnerships,” Oakley said. “We’ve really been focused on our own brand, and staying true to who we are.
“There’s also something rewarding and fulfilling about working on something that you directly have control over – I’m all about energy, I feel like there's always a good energy when you have a clear direction.
“Working with people you’re familiar with, and who you like the energy of.”
“We are very lucky that we’re in a position now where we don’t have to feel worried saying no,” she added.
“It wasn’t always that way. We’ve never let a dollar amount be the focus – it’s always been, is this good? Is this on brand??”

        Nasty Gal x Natasha Oakley is out now.
      
