
# Xiaomi launches Redmi Note 8 Pro dark blue version in Taiwan -

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:51:58+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/xiaomi-launches-redmi-note-8-pro-dark-blue-version-in-taiwan/)

Xiaomi launches Redmi Note 8 Pro “dark blue” version in Taiwan3.7 (73.33%) 3 votes
The Redmi Note 8 Pro is already selling globally but the company now has a new colour option. In addition to the ice jade, pearl white, and electro-optic ash, Redmi has now added a  “dark blue” colour in Taiwan. This smartphone is currently on “Arrival Notice” but it will be available from November 11. The price of 6GB+64GB is NT$6,599 ($218) while the 6GB+128GB version costs NT$7,599 ($251).
The Redmi Note 8 Pro comes with an Helio G90T processor that uses 2 ARMCortex-A76 and 6 Cortex-A55 cores. On the screen side, this smartphone features a 3D four-curved glass body with a 6.53-inch screen and a resolution of 2340×1080. This display comes with TÜV Rheinland Eye Certification.
In the camera department, we have a 64MP Samsung GW1 main camera. The Samsung GW1 uses a 1/1.7-inch ultra-large bottom sensor, which is 34% larger than the 48MP sensor. It supports 4-in-1 pixel technology, pixel-isolated ISOCELL PLUS technology, and an intelligent ISO technology. In front, there is a 20MP camera.
The Note 8 Pro comes with a built-in 4500mAh battery which supports 18W fast charge. In addition, this smartphone supports other features like the USB Type-C interface, 3.5mm headphone jack, multi-function NFC, Infrared remote control, etc.

        Source
      
