
# Two of Demi Moore's daughters didn't speak to her for years due to Ashton Kutcher

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:34:13+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/two-demi-moores-daughters-didnt-20829243)

Demi Moore's eldest daughter has revealed how her younger sisters, Scout and Tallulah, didn't speak to their mum for three years amid her difficult marriage to Ashton Kutcher.
Rumer, Demi's 31 year old daughter with Bruce Willis, described how she acted as an intermediary between her younger sisters and their mum.
The resentment was put down to the attention Demi was paying her then husband Ashton Kutcher - they were also trying for a child together, but sadly ended in a miscarriage.
Appearing on Jada Pinkett-Smith's Red Table Talk with her mum and Tallulah, Rumer said: "Scout and Tallulah had very different experiences than I had when we stopped talking to my mom - they didn't speak to her for three years."
Rumer added: "[I] went in an out as kind of like the ambassador for the family."
Tallulah chimed in: "So much of that time, especially with Ashton, I was so angry because I felt like something that was mine had been taken away."
She continued that "when [Demi] wanted to have another baby and then it wasn't happening and there was so much focus on that, it was like, 'Oh, well, we're not enough.'"
"At one point," Rumer said, "Her friends are calling me and being like, 'I'm really worried about your mom. You need to talk to her', so then I'm like, 'OK, well, I have to go and fix this.'"
It wasn't that easy, though, as Rumer related how the family shunned her for her decision to talk to Demi.
She continued: "And then I was like, 'Then I'll have no one; I'll have my mom who's like, not capable of being my mom right now and then the rest of the family is just not gonna speak to me anymore.'"
Demi herself explained that she felt an "addiction" to Ashton.
She said: "The addiction and the co-dependency, my addiction to Ashton, that was probably almost more devastating because it took me seriously away emotionally."
Demi and Ashton were married for six years, with it drawing a great deal of attention because of their 15 year age gap.
They tied the knot in 2005, five years after Demi and Bruce had called it quits.
Ashton's now with Mila Kunis - incidentally, he was her first kiss during the filming of That 70s Show.
