
# Roger Stone heads to trial in Mueller offshoot case, after months of open conflict with judge

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:20:41+00:00**

Author: **Gregg Re**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/roger-stone-heads-to-trial)

Social media posts? Banned.
Video clips from "The Godfather: Part II?" Banned.
Transcripts from "The Godfather: Part II?" Not banned.
Those are just some of the unusual ground rules set out by Obama-appointed U.S. District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson for the widely anticipated trial of former Trump confidant Roger Stone, which begins on Tuesday in Washington.
Stone, a longtime Republican provocateur and part-time fashion critic, is accused of witness tampering and lying to the House Intelligence Committee about his efforts to obtain Russian-hacked Hillary Clinton emails for political gain.
But, ever since his arrest in a dramatic nighttime raid by a heavily armed federal tactical team in January, Stone has remained combative and defiant, even flashing the infamous Richard Nixon "V sign" before a throng of photographers. Then, a month later, Stone aroused Jackson's ire when Stone's Instagram hosted a photo appearing to show Jackson with gun crosshairs behind her.
“Through legal trickery, Deep State hitman Robert Mueller has guaranteed that my upcoming show trial is before Judge Amy Berman Jackson, an Obama appointed Judge who dismissed the Benghazi charges against Hillary Clinton and incarcerated Paul Manafort prior to his conviction for any crime,” Stone’s post was captioned.
Stone apologized, but Jackson quickly issued a gag order barring Stone from social media -- which Stone repeatedly violated, including by calling Special Counsel Robert Mueller "crooked" and allegedly calling for ex-CIA Director John Brennan to be summarily executed.
“So what am I supposed to do with you?" an exasperated Judge Jackson said at one pretrial hearing. "It seems as if, once again, I’m wrestling with behavior that has more to do with middle school than a court of law. It’s tempting to ignore it all completely, but if I don’t respect and uphold my own orders, why would I expect anyone else to?”

        
          JUDGE BARS ROGER STONE FROM SOCIAL MEDIA, AFTER HIS INSTAGRAM POSTS DISPARAGE ROBERT MUELLER
        
      
Jackson added: “You’ve shown me that you’re unwilling to stop talking about the investigation, which means that you’re unwilling to conform your conduct to the orders of the court. The goal has been to draw maximum attention to what you view as flaws in the investigation.”
It remains unclear whether Stone will choose to testify in his own defense during the trial, which reportedly could also feature testimony from former Trump adviser Steve Bannon.
Stone's indictment in January was an offshoot of Mueller's investigation, and Judge Jackson provided Stone's legal team access to most of the redacted materials in Mueller's report in order to prepare his defense.

        
          PROSECUTOR'S CAN'T PLAY 'GODFATHER' CLIP IN STONE TRIAL, JUDGE RULES
        
      
Stone is not charged with conspiring with WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy website that published emails of Democrats during the 2016 campaign, or with the Russian officers Mueller says hacked them. Instead, he is accused of lying about his interactions related to WikiLeaks' release during probes by Congress and Mueller’s team.
Prosecutors have alleged that an unnamed top Trump official "directed" stone to reach out to WikiLeaks, and that Stone specifically lied to investigators in several ways. Specifically, Stone allegedly lied when he said he had no relevant documents to turn over; when he said that New York radio host Randy Credico was his only source as to WikiLeaks' plans, when he denied pressuring Credico to keep quiet; and when he insisted he never sought to relay a message to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange.
Stone, prosecutors said, pressured Credico to “do a Frank Pentangeli” in his testimony before Congress, a reference to a character from the 1974 film "The Godfather Part II" who backtracked his plans to provide Congress with an incriminating testimony on the Corleone crime family.
Attorneys for the government suggested playing the “Pentangeli” clip during Stone’s trial. But Judge Jackson ruled last month that doing so could unfairly prejudice jurors.
“The government will not be permitted to introduce the clip itself in its case in chief because the prejudicial effect of the videotape, which includes a number of extraneous matters, outweighs its probative value,” Jackson ruled Monday.
She did say, however, that prosecutors may use a transcript of the scene.
Trump, for his part, has said Stone has been unfairly targeted, noting that Mueller found no evidence that any member of Trump's team had conspired with Russians to influence the 2016 election -- despite multiple outreach efforts by Russians.
