
# Australia vs Pakistan | 2nd T20 International - Statistical Preview

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:48:08+00:00**

Author: **Bodog India**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/australia-vs-pakistan-2-nd-t-20-international-statistical-preview?utm_medium=rss)


        With weather denying Australia an obvious victory in Sydney last weekend, Aaron Finch and Co. would be eager to take the lead in the second T20 in Canberra. On the other hand, Pakistan would look to start all over again even though the odds are heavily stacked against them as per Bodog.
      

        Australia - NR-W-W-W-W-W-L-NR-W-L
      
Apart from the previous match, which was called off, Australia have had a fruitful outing in the shortest format for the past one year. The Aussies have won 6 out of their last 10 matches while losing 2 and the remaining two games yielded no results. While the Australians have each and every trophy in the cabinet and have by far been the most successful team in the modern era, the coveted World T20 trophy is the one which has eluded for a long time. Their best finish at the showpiece event was back in 2010 when they finished as runners-up in the Caribbean. With the 2020 edition set to be hosted ‘Down Under’, Aaron Finch and Co. are going to eye the series as a potential preparation ahead of the tournament.

        Pakistan - NR-L-L-L-L-W-L-L-W-W
      
Although they are the top-ranked T20 nation in the world, the recent 0-3 loss to Sri Lanka at home last month was a bitter pill to swallow for them. The last series win for Pakistan was back in October 2018 when they thumped New Zealand 3-0 in the UAE. Following which, there was not much to talk about. In the last 10 matches, Pakistan have won 3, lost 6 and the other had no result. While the Asian nation were certainly on the verge of defeat in the first T20I against Australia, the match was called off due to rain. The result might have saved them from embarrassment ahead of the 2nd T20 and they will look to start afresh.

        Head to head
      

        Australia: 7, Pakistan: 12, NR: 2
      

        Pakistan: 12, Australia: 7, NR: 2
      

        
          David Warner
        
      
The explosive left-handed batsman has taken power-hitting to a different level after returning to international cricket after a one-and-a-half-year absence. His record, especially in T20Is, has been out of the world and we have enough evidence to back up the claims. In the past 6 matches, the southpaw has scored an astonishing 303 runs at an average of 151.5! The recent 3-0 rout of Sri Lanka saw him score 100, 60 and 57 in the three matches respectively and he was unbeaten in each of those occasions. 
But for a fact, David Warner does not have a great record against Pakistan with an average of 25.45 in 13 matches, which he can overturn in the ongoing series. He got little opportunity to score in the rain-abandoned match last weekend against Pakistan, but we are pretty sure, as well as Bodog, that he is going to show his prowess once again in the 2nd T20I.

        Baba Azam
      
Even when the entire batting line-up collapses, Babar Azam manages to pull his team out of the whole and gain a respective total. That has been the case with Pakistan in recent times, they are privileged to have the top-ranked T20 batsman in the side. One of the few players to average more than 50 in T20Is, the right-hander has been in phenomenal form in the past few years, save the series against Sri Lanka last month. Even in the last T20 against Australia, he top-scored with an unbeaten 59 to guide Pakistan to a competitive total of 107 after the innings was reduced to 15 overs. In a more interesting revelation, the skipper, in the four matches he has played against Australia, has scored 222 runs at an average of 111 which includes three half-centuries. We are expecting him to top the scoring charts for Pakistan on Tuesday, so does Bodog.
Bodog is predicting that Australia will hit more sixes in the match. What do you think?AustraliaPakistan

        
          Mitchell Starc
        
      
Arguably one of the best T20 bowlers in the world at present, Mitchell Starc has evolved himself from the day he made his International debut back in 2010. Along with his teammates, the aim is to lift their maiden ICC World T20 trophy next year, while this is series is going to create a perfect platform in the build-up to the competition. Starc’s record against the Asians is pretty impressive having scalped 11 wickets in the 6 matches he played at an average of 11.09 which include a brilliant spell in the last T20. Without surprise, Bodog has listed him as the top bowler for the upcoming Canberra T20I.

        Mohammed Amir
      
Another left-arm pacer, the talent which he possessed was evident from the day he made his debut back in 2009. Playing with the same potential after a gap of five years is not an easy job for any bowler, but Amir has done it well so far. Looking at his recent form, he is definitely Pakistan’s best bowler along with Wahab Riaz. Apart from consistent spells in Tests and ODIs, the fast bowler has been plying his trade with equal dominance in the shortest format too. In 45 matches, he has picked up 58 wickets at an average of 20.12. Meanwhile, while facing Australia, his record is a notch above the others. In the 8 matches against the team from Southern Hemisphere, Amir has scalped 16 wickets at an inspiring average of 13.62. Bodog is backing up the fast bowler as the pick of the bowlers for Pakistan.
This is the first time that Manuka Oval is going to host a T20I, although nine ODIs and one Test have been played in the ground. The 12,000-seater stadium has staged three matches during the 2015 ICC World Cup but won’t feature in the 2020 World T20. Australia have never lost in this ground. As per the trend in ODIs played in Canberra, teams batting first have won 7 out of 9 times, while the average runs scored in the venue is 544, which is pretty high. It is quite evident that we are in for a run fest in the upcoming fixtures.

        Australia
      
Aaron Finch (c), Ashton Agar, Alex Carey, Pat Cummins, Glenn Maxwell, Ben McDermott, Kane Richardson, Steve Smith, Billy Stanlake, Mitchell Starc, Ashton Turner, David Warner, Adam Zampa, Sean Abbott
Babar Azam (c), Asif Ali, Fakhar Zaman, Haris Sohail, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imad Wasim, Imam-ul-Haq, Khushdil Shah, Mohammad Amir, Mohammad Hasnain, Mohammad Irfan, Mohammad Rizwan (wk), Musa Khan, Shadab Khan, Usman Qadir
Venue: Manuka Oval, Canberra
When to watch: November 5,  1.40 PM
Where to watch: Ten Network
To get extensive coverage of the match along with the live updates, follow Bodog.

        Australia
      
Aaron Finch (c), David Warner, Steve Smith, Ben McDermott, Ashton Turner, Alex Carey, Ashton Agar, Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc, Kane Richardson, Adam Zampa

        Pakistan
      
Babar Azam (c), Fakhar Zaman, Haris Sohail, Mohammad Rizwan (wk), Asif Ali, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imad Wasim, Wahab Riaz, Shadab Khan, Mohammad Amir, Mohammad Hasnain
