
# Former Bengal women cricketers in ICU after car collides with truck

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mohammad Asif**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/former-women-cricketers-in-icu-after-car-collides-with-truck/city/kolkata/former-women-cricketers-in-icu-after-car-collides-with-truck/articleshow/71882427.cms)

KOLKATA: Three former cricketers of the Bengal women’s team were injured when the car they were travelling in hit a goods vehicle near Sardanga in East Burdwan on Sunday morning. Purnima Chowdhury, Shyama De and Chandana Mukherjee — who now serve as selectors — have been admitted to Camri Superspeciality Hospital, near Memari, along with the driver of their vehicle, Biswajit Paridha.
The three women have been admitted to the ICU, while Paridha is under treatment at the general ward. All four were stated to be stable and could be moved to a Kolkata hospital on Monday.

        CAB secretary Abhishek Dalmiya (in blue) with with officials of Camri hospital, where the injured are admitted, on Sunday
      
The trio was on the way to Suri to attend the under-23 girls’ team selection match. Chowdhury and Mukherjee, who represented India too, left Kolkata shortly after 7am and picked De up from Mandirtala in Howrah half an hour later.
As they were passing Sardanga near Memari on NH-2, their Innova hit a truck from behind. Local residents and the police rescued the injured women and the driver and got them admitted to the hospital.
According to the hospital authorities, all four had multiple injuries, including fractures. Two of the injured women may even need surgeries for their facial injuries, doctors said, adding that Chowdhury’s injuries were more serious than the others’.
“They are stable and their vital parameters are normal. All are conscious, but have been kept under close observation and appropriate treatment,” said a statement issued by the hospital.
CAB secretary Abhishek Dalmiya and joint secretary Debabrata Das visited the hospital on Sunday. “Fortunately, all of them are stable, though they have sustained injuries. Depending on their condition and after consulting doctors, we may shift them to a hospital in Kolkata on Monday,” Dalmiya said.
According to De’s husband Subir, Paridha may have dozed off and lost control of the vehicle.
