
# Everyone’s doing it so why is there still a taboo about diving?

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Irishexaminer](https://www.irishexaminer.com/breakingnews/sport/columnists/everyones-doing-it-so-why-is-there-still-a-taboo-about-diving-962321.html)

‘I’m probably the wrong man to ask, I like a little dive myself.”
Damien Duff was sitting a few feet away from me in a TV studio in 2014 when he said that. It was his debut as a TV pundit and Chelsea’s Andre Schurrle had flung himself to the ground in the PSG box. I solicited some righteous indignation from Duffer: Maybe something about diving being a scourge on our great game? Even a mild Down With That Sort Of Thing?
Instead Duffer, still playing and unschooled in the Jesuitical language of sports punditry, told the truth. I like a little dive. A shrug of the shoulders. So what?
The revelation was shocking. Not that a professional footballer liked, on occasion, if the opportunity presented itself and if he thought he could get away with it, to dive. That much was blatantly obvious to anyone who even watched the odd game.
The shock was in someone admitting it.
I thought of Duffer when Pep Guardiola called Sadio Mane a diver the other day. Managerial press conference spats belong in the milieu of the playground, with the media ferrying “did you hear what he said about you?” shade back and forth between parties in the hope that they will end up metaphorically scuffling behind the bike sheds at lunchtime.
Pep calling Mane a diver was primo schoolyard junk. It has dominated the chatter in the build-up to Sunday’s mega-massive Premier League apocalypto clash between Liverpool and Manchester City. Guardiola has had to climb down since. Too much. In the code of football insults, being called a diver is about as bad as you can get without entering the realm of El Hadji Diouf.
But why is this so? Five years on from Duffer’s frank revelation and several gazillion blatantly obvious dives later, why does football still pretend that diving is taboo when lots of players clearly, in the words of our own blue-eyed boy from Ballyboden, like a little dive?
According to historical record, diving was brought to game in these islands in the early 1990s by a fellow called Johnny Foreigner, a swarthy, journeyman striker of unspecified Latin origin, whose corrupting influence soon infected the pure Anglo-Saxon-Celtic gene pool.
Honest, rugged physicality was replaced by deceit and chicanery. Manly exchanges of boot and elbow were undermined by play-acting and subterfuge.
New phrases came in: Making a meal of it, swan dive, give him an Oscar.
Fans of more muscular sports scoffed at football with its nancy boys and girls’ blouses throwing themselves about. Rugby in particular, flagons of ale aloft and arse stuffed with flaming toilet paper, guffawed its derision.
Football wasn’t too happy about it either, but quietly adopted Johnny’s methods. The language softened for all but the most outré simulation. He went down a little easy. There was contact. A leg was dangled. The referee had a decision to make.
Jurgen Klinsmann made a joke of it by incorporating a dive into his goal celebration. We laughed. This was the 1990s, it was very post-modern, very TFI Friday.
