
# Poll: Support for Impeachment Falls from 51% to 47% Since Mid-October | Breitbart

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:53:04+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/joelpollak, Joel B. Pollak**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/06/poll-support-for-impeachment-falls-from-51-to-47-since-mid-october/)

Morning Consult reports:
The parties remain dug in, with 4 of 5 Democrats supporting impeachment and a similar proportion of Republicans opposing impeachment, the poll reported.
Other polls have shown wavering support for impeachment. Polls of battleground states and swing districts are even more negative on impeachment, according to several recent reports.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) said that he expects the House to impeach the president, regardless, though he said that the Senate would not vote to convict the president if a vote were held today.
He added that Democrats had been shirking their legislative responsibilities while focusing on impeachment: “House Democrats are blocking the USMCA [U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement] while they pursue their three-year-old impeachment obsession. 176,000 new American jobs are being held up because this major new trade deal might interfere with House Democrats’ political theater.”

        Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He earned an A.B. in Social Studies and Environmental Science and Public Policy from Harvard College, and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. He is a winner of the 2018 Robert Novak Journalism Alumni Fellowship. He is also the co-author of 
        How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution
        , which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.
      
