
# Night workers given new rights in Saudi labor law overhaul

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:42:37+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Arab News](https://www.arabnews.com/node/1577796/saudi-arabia)

RIYADH: Arab-Brazilian Chamber of Commerce President Rubens Hannun described Brazillian President Jair Bolsonaro’s visit to Saudi Arabia as “extremely important,” claiming it was a major step in bolstering ties between the two nations.
In an interview with Arab News at the Saudi-Brazilian Business Forum, attended by Bolsonaro and Saudi Minister of Commerce and Investment Majed Al-Qasabi, Hannun said: “The visit by the president to Saudi Arabia is extremely important because it includes the president. The leadership from two sides should talk to each other, so it’s really important from my point of view, what happened in these two days.” 
Bolsonaro arrived in Riyadh on Monday night with a delegation of ministers, parliamentarians and business people, and was a guest of honor at the Future Investments Initiative (FII).
Hannun said: “I know the importance of Saudi Arabia, this is my fourth visit in 2019, I am trying to collect more information, be closer to business and the government, and help with coordination.”
“I see Saudi Arabia today as more modern; it’s improving with more technology, and looking at the future with a fine strategic plan in Saudi Vision 2030 — a pioneer for the world. With all its diversity, it has opened a new channel and a new challenge for Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
“I can see every day that businessmen can sit, negotiate and establish strategic partnerships, which can start in Brazil and finish in Saudi Arabia or vice versa. Saudi Arabia can be a hub for the region, and a hub for Brazilian industry.”
He added that in order for further progress to be achieved, more cross-channel communiation was needed between Saudi and Brazilian public and private bodies.
The forum witnessed the signing of five agreements between Saudi and Brazilian parties to enhance joint cooperation, including a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA) and the Brazilian Trade and Investment Promotion Agency.
There were also MoUs between SAGIA and the Arab Brazilian Chamber of Commerce, the chamber of commerce and several industrial clusters, the Saudi Fund for Development and the Brazilian Development Bank, and the Brazil-Arab News Agency (ANBA) and Arab News.
Commenting on the latter agreement, Hannun said: “I am very happy and honored to have this partnership, this will bring Saudi Arabia and Brazil closer.”
