
# ‘Minty Codes’: There’s A Much Easier Way Of Getting a ‘Merry Mint’ Pickaxe In ‘Fortnite’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dave Thier**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2019/11/06/minty-codes-theres-a-much-easier-way-of-getting-a-merry-mint-pickaxe-in-fortnite/)

If you follow Fortnite-related news on the internet, you may have been somewhat confused about the striking proliferation of “minty” code giveaways in recent weeks. It refers to the “Merry Mint” pickaxe, a special promotional item that Epic and several retailers such as GameStop are using to push Fortnite merchandise ahead of the holiday shopping season. It was never intended to be an Earth-shattering thing, but sometimes, things happen. A few weeks ago some GameStops mistakenly handed out some early Minty codes, making these things some the rarest cosmetics in the game. And for a particular sort of gamer, that meant they had to have it. Minty Codes have been flying around social media, some almost definitely fake, and at least some probably real. It’s been a strangely heated thing for what at the end of the day is a perfectly fine harvesting tool but that’s likely going to come to an end soon.
This was always designed to be a relatively wide promotion, and these pickaxes were never supposed to be the hottest thing in the game. Today, GameStop started giving away the codes legitimately, and that’s the best way to get one now. All you have to do is go to GameStop and buy a piece of Fortnite merchandise–it doesn’t have to be big–and you’ll get a code. So it’s maybe it’s not the best time to shell $15 out on some shady giveaway, exposing yourself to identity theft in the process. Actually, there is not good time for that.
I’ve seen reports of large lines, kids skipping school, and all of that, as well as indications that supplies are going to be limited. While that’s probably the case, we’ll likely get restocks, and so this is going to gradually become an item with significantly less bragging rights attached. That doesn’t mean you shouldn’t join in the fun and grab one, because sometimes hype for hype’s sake is a worthwhile thing. We all need something to get excited about from time to time, and a Fortnite cosmetic can do the trick.
The promotion is intended to expand to France and Germany, so there are soon going to be a whole lot more Minty codes flying around the internet. If you haven’t gotten yours, don’t sweat it.
