
# Verstappen tops FP3 as Leclerc suffers engine problems!

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:51:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49251/fp3-report.html)


        Max Verstappen set the fastest lap time in final practice as the Aston Martin Red Bull Racing driver set himself up for qualifying perfectly. The lead changed multiple times through the session as Verstappen, Sebastian Vettel and Valtteri Bottas each set the quickest lap on numerous occasions.
      
Vettel finished second in the session but there was a surprise in P3, as Lando Norris set a late time to come from nowhere, springing questions as to whether it was just a mega lap from the teenager or whether the top three teams are holding pace back.
It was a nightmare start to the session for Ferrari as Charles Leclerc pulled over with an engine issue. The engine sounded rough as he tried to accelerate out of the middle sector and he pulled over shortly after, ending his session prematurely.
The Mercedes duo of Bottas and title chasing Lewis Hamilton were off the pace in fourth and fifth respectively. Alex Albon was behind the pair, with all three more than half a second off Verstappen's pace.
Carlos Sainz wasn't quite able to match his teammate's superb pace but still kept up his solid momentum by setting a time worthy of seventh place.
Kimi Raikkonen hasn't scored points since the summer break, but an eighth placed finish in FP3 showed that he can still be competitive in the Alfa Romeo at the circuit he took victory at last season. Pierre Gasly and Daniel Ricciardo rounded off the top ten for Toro Rosso and Renault.
Qualifying begins at 9pm UK time and you can follow it on our liveblog here on GPBlog.com!
