
# Two new phones — the Pixel 4 and iPhone 11 — but which is for you?

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:30:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/iphone-11-vs-pixel-4?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

The Pixel 4 is Google's model for what Android should be: fast, fluid, and with great imaging. Its cameras take fantastic photos in any lighting conditions, and with astrophotography mode you can even capture the stars. However, battery life and pricing don't do the phone any favors.

        $800 at Amazon
      
The iPhone 11 packs Apple's most powerful processor and two fantastic cameras into its most affordable phone of the year. It's a bit on the large side, but its ultra-wide lens is more useful than a telephoto sensor, and it shoots great-looking 4K60 video.

        $700 at Best Buy
      
There are seemingly endless options for phones from different manufacturers these days, but if you're after the best possible software experience, why not buy directly from the maker of the operating system? Google and Apple both have fantastic offerings this year, but while they look similar in hardware, there's a lot that's different between the Pixel 4 and iPhone 11. Assuming you're relatively platform agnostic, which should you buy?

        Source: Hayato Huseman / Android Central
      
Physically, it's no stretch to say that the Pixel 4 and iPhone 11 look similar, at least from the back. Both phones feature a glass and metal construction with square housings for their dual camera modules and matte-finish side rails for extra grip. While the iPhone 11 is only available with a slick glossy backing, only the black Pixel 4 is glossy, with the white and orange models featuring frosted glass instead. Build quality on each phone is outstanding, and both feature wireless charging and IP68 water and dust resistance.
Around the front, the differences are more apparent. The iPhone 11 has the same wide display notch up top that Apple's been using since the iPhone X, housing the necessary sensors for its Face ID authentication, while the PIxel 4 sticks with a more traditional "forehead" bezel above its display.
New this year for the Pixel is a combination of radar and infrared sensors that enable its own Face Unlock system in lieu of a fingerprint sensor, which works incredibly well and is even faster than Face ID, but with far less support. We're still waiting on Android developers to adopt Google's new biometrics API that enables Face Unlock for signing into apps.
You'll get a larger display with the iPhone 11, a 6.1-inch LCD panel versus the Pixel 4's 5.7-inch P-OLED, but the latter is both higher resolution and faster with a variable refresh rate at up to 90Hz. This plays a big role in making the PIxel 4 feel speedier when scrolling around in apps, but both phones are incredibly responsive.

        Source: Hayato Huseman / Android Central
      
On the software side, both Android 10 and iOS 13 have a lot of pros and cons, but they're undoubtedly the best iterations of their respective platforms. In Android 10, you get a system-wide dark mode along with, among other things, useful features like live transcription of any audio (great for loud environments or for those who are hard of hearing), call screening to field potential spam calls, and completely revamped privacy and security measures.
In iOS 13, you won't get as much customization as on Android, but in exchange you're getting the keys to Apple's diverse ecosystem; you'll get iMessage for easily communicating with other iPhone owners, Airdrop for wirelessly transferring files to other Apple devices (including Mac computers), and a wider variety of high-quality apps through the App Store. You also gain access to the unmatched Apple Watch, which could be almost as big of a selling point as the phone itself if you're a smartwatch fan.
