
# 2020 Honda Rebel 300, Rebel 500 revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/2020-honda-rebel-300-rebel-500-revealed-414754)

The bikes receive an updated suspension, seat and headlight, among other minor design updates.
The new CBR1000RR-R is the centre of attention in Honda’s stall at EICMA, which is being held in Milan. There are, however, some other motorcycles from the Japanese manufacturer that have our caught our eye at the show – two of which are the Honda Rebel 300 and Rebel 500 that return for 2020.
The small-displacement cruisers are two of Honda’s most popular models in international markets, and for 2020, they have received a few updates. For starters, both bikes have been equipped with a slipper clutch that Honda claims reduces clutch-lever effort by 30 percent, apart from the obvious advantage it brings to added control under deceleration. The bikes also receive an updated front fork with stiffer springs and revised oil levels. Also new are a revised instrument cluster that displays gear position and fuel level, a thicker seat and a new LED headlight.
The Rebel 500 is powered by a 471cc parallel-twin, liquid-cooled engine, while the engine on the Rebel 300 is a 286cc, single-cylinder, liquid-cooled unit.
Pricing for both motorcycles is yet to be announced but Honda has revealed that they will go on sale in March 2020. The duo has been highly anticipated in India, and with Honda's recent plans to increase its premium-bike presence in our market, we could see this happen in the near future.
