
# Pirates’ Big Decision To Stop Billiat, Nurkovic & Co

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:04:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/orlando-pirates-have-a-big-decision-to-make-to-stop-kaizer-chiefs/666924)

Orlando Pirates have a big decision to make in attempting to stop Kaizer Chiefs and avoid a second successive defeat by their perennial rivals.
The Buccaneers will be hosted by Amakhosi at FNB Stadium on Saturday, in a repeat fixture following last weekend’s defeat in the Telkom Knockout.

        Read: Pirates’ Huge Soweto Derby Blow! 
      
Chiefs’ stars Khama Billiat, Samir Nurkovic and Leonardo Castro are some of the players who could prove to be a threat to Pirates’ chances of avenging last weekend’s defeat.
Im further complicating things for Bucs is the fact that the team will be without veteran defender and captain Happy Jele, owing to suspension.
Jele has played in 25 competitive Soweto Derbies since he started out at Bucs in 2006. While Rulani Mokwena appeared to have no concerns about losing Jele, as suggested by his post-match interview after the Maritzburg United match on Tuesday, there is concern by th club’s supporters about the team’s defence without the experienced 32-year-old. 

        Read: Heartbreak As Club Confirms Liquidation!    
      
The last time Jele was suspended, Pirates utilised Ntsikelelo Nyauza and Alfred Ndengane as centre-backs and lost 1-0 to Stellenbosch FC. Ndengane has since lost his place in the squad.  
Jele last missed the Soweto Derby im October 2017, where Nyauza was paired with Justice Chabalala at centre-back. Pirates and Chiefs played to a goalless draw in front of a packed FNB Stadium.
An option for Bucs would be to use Chabalala, who has been on the bench for Bucs’ last two matches. 
