
# Ten of the Most Prolific Strikers in Europe This Season

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:45:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Asharq AL-awsat](https://aawsat.com/english/home/article/1976926/ten-most-prolific-strikers-europe-season)

Afew strikers in Europe’s top leagues have enjoyed blistering starts to the season. Robert Lewandowski set a new record on Saturday by scoring in the first nine games of a Bundesliga season, but he is not the only striker on top form. In fact, his rate of a goal every 60 minutes is not the most impressive in Europe so far this season.10) Jamie Vardy, Leicester: 100 minutes per goalJamie Vardy completed a hat-trick in the last minute of Leicester’s record-equaling rout of Southampton on Friday night to overtake Tammy Abraham and Sergio Agüero as the top scorer in the Premier League. The 32-year-old shows no sign of slowing down. He has played every minute of Leicester’s league campaign, scoring nine goals from just 20 shots, giving him an impressive conversion rate of 45%.9) Loren Morón, Real Betis: 99 minutes per goalReal Betis would be in real trouble were it not for Loren Morón’s scoring touch this season. They are sitting above the relegation zone on goal difference alone even though their 25-year-old marksman is the joint leading scorer in La Liga. He has scored seven goals despite only starting seven games.8) Tammy Abraham, Chelsea: 92 minutes per goalThe young Chelsea striker has only scored one goal in his last five league games but he still boasts an excellent strike rate, with eight goals to his name so far (only Vardy has scored more). The 22-year-old has hit more shots on target (17) than any other player in the league.7) Paco Alcácer, Borussia Dortmund: 89 minutes per goalAfter a disappointing stalemate in the Reiverderby against Schalke, Borussia Dortmund have been boosted by the return to training of Paco Alcácer. His time in Germany has been hampered by injury but the Spaniard has been prolific while on the pitch. He scored 18 times last season at a rate of a goal every 67 minutes and started this season with five goals in his first four league games.6) Duván Zapata, Atalanta: 86 minutes per goalAnother player whose fantastic start has been halted by injury of late, Duván Zapata returned from international duty with an abductor muscle tear. The Colombian had scored six goals in seven Serie A appearances beforehand, picking up this season where he left of last, taking his tally to 19 league goals in 2019.5) Wissam Ben Yedder, Monaco: 73 minutes per goalWhen Monaco signed Wissam Ben Yedder from Sevilla in the summer it looked like a great move for the Ligue 1 club. He has already proven a hit. The 29-year-old, back in his homeland following a successful spell in Spain, has scored nine goals in his first nine league games for Monaco. He is currently on a six-match scoring streak.4) Sergio Agüero, Manchester City: 72 minutes per goalSergio Agüero’s goal return is mightily impressive given that he and Gabriel Jesus have rotated in and out of the Manchester City side in recent times. Agüero found the net in his first six league games this season and has eight goals so far even though he has only started six times in the Premier League. Agüero is closing in on Thierry Henry and Frank Lampard on the Premier League all-time top scorer list.3) Ciro Immobile, Lazio: 70 minutes per goalCiro Immobile scored his 10th goal of the season at the weekend, hitting the winner for Lazio in their 2-1 victory at Fiorentina. The 29-year-old must have his eyes on a third Capocannoniere of his career – he won the award for Serie A top scorer as a Torino player in 2013-14 and for Lazio in 2018-19. It is remarkable that Immobile has already hit double figures this season given that he has only completed the full 90 minutes in five matches. The Italian has also picked up five assists this season, meaning he has had a direct hand in more goals (14) than any other player in Europe’s top five leagues.2) Robert Lewandowski, Bayern Munich: 60 minutes per goalAt the age of 31, Lewandowski is enjoying the best start to the season of any player in Bundesliga history. The Poland international has scored 13 goals in his first nine league matches. He has also scored five time in the Champions League – at a rate of a goal every 54 minutes.1) Luis Muriel, Atalanta: 42 minutes per goalTalk about healthy competition. Atalanta boast two strikers in this list. Luis Muriel has stepped into the boots of his injured teammate, Zapata, and delivered some real statement performances this season. Muriel is something of a journeyman, the rapid forward has played for five current Serie A clubs but, for one reason or another, never really settled. That may be about to change. Atalanta’s vibrant attacking football suit the Colombian to a tee and he has scored eight goals from just 337 minutes of action so far this season.The Guardian Sport
