
# U-23 World Wrestling Ch’ships | Sajan Bhanwal misses bronze medal, Ravi enters repechage

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:48:28+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/u-23-world-wrestling-chships-sajan-bhanwal-misses-bronze-medal-ravi-enters-repechage?utm_medium=rss)


        India had a mixed day at the UWW Under-23 World Championships 2019 after three-time World Junior Wrestling Championships medallist Sajan Bhanwal couldn’t clinch the bronze medal. Apart from him, India saw Arjun Halakurki and Sachin Rana, while Ravi advanced into the second round of repechage.
      
Bhanwal, who was playing in the Greco-Roman category (77kg), was up against Turkey’s Serkan Akkoyun and was comprehensively beaten 10-1 in the bronze medal contest. Apart from him, Halakurki of the 55kg category lost 2-10 to Norayr Hakhoyan of Armenia, while Sachin Rana lost 5-2 to China’s Liguo Cao in the 60kg qualifiers.
The Indian contingent had something to cheer for in Ravi’s first repechage clash that he won. Earlier, Ravi was blanked 8-0 by Georgian grappler Giorgi Melia, but he now has a chance to get into the bronze medal play-off, if he wins the next bout.
In the 87kg, Sunil Kumar had managed to win his first repechage bout against Aleksandar Georgije Stjepanetic but failed to extend his run against in the second repechage bout against Croatia’s Ivan Huklek, who defeated beat him 6-3.
The 60kg qualifiers saw Sachin Rana losing 5-2 to China’s Liguo Cao while Rahul lost 0-8 to Russia’s Magomed Yarbilov in the same round of 72kg. Neeraj also failed to make an impact as he was humbled 1-10 by Serbia’s Branko Kovacevic in the qualifying bout in 82kg.
The poor run continued in the 67kg as well where Ravinder lost to Turkey’s Haci Karakus2-1. 
