
# Rebels get their revenge with OT win over Pats

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:36:10+00:00**

Author: **Greg Harder**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/hockey/rebels-get-their-revenge-with-ot-win-over-pats)

Perhaps turnabout was fair play between the Regina Pats and Red Deer Rebels.
Two weeks after Regina’s 10-game skid came to an end with a come-from-behind 6-5 shootout victory, Red Deer avenged that loss thanks to a 3-2 overtime decision before 5,688 fans at the Brandt Centre.
The Rebels (5-8-0-2) entered Sunday’s contest having lost seven in a row — two of them via shootout. In their previous meeting with the Pats, ex-Rebel Austin Pratt forced overtime with 15 seconds left in regulation and Zach Wytinck won it in the shootout.
Pratt did it again on Sunday when he tied it up with 40.7 seconds on the clock, but this time the Rebels finished it off in OT.
“It should not have gotten to that point,” said Pats head coach Dave Struch, who felt his team deserved a better fate despite picking up its fourth point in the past four games.
“I’m sure a couple of those goals we would want back. When you play that well, you would hope we wouldn’t have to fight back in the last minute. But that just shows our guys are getting better.”
Goalie Max Paddock made his third consecutive start for Regina after missing four in a row with a shoulder injury.
He wasn’t beaten until 5:19 into the second period, when Red Deer took a 1-0 lead. The goal was scored off a 2-on-1 break as Chase Leslie raced down the left side and elected to keep it, drilling a shot into the top short-side corner.
Zack Smith responded with 5:43 left in the second, potting his first WHL goal just as a power play expired. Smith’s shot from the right circle hit an unfortunate defender in the face before bouncing behind goaltender Byron Fancy.
“I just took a shot and I think it went off a skate and a helmet and into the net,” said Smith, a former SJHLer who was playing his third game with Regina. “It was a lucky bounce but I’ll take it. This is a tough league so sometimes players will go a lot of games without scoring goals. To get one early, I can hopefully build off that and keep getting better every game.”
With the score tied 1-1 and overtime looming, Red Deer took the lead with 1:23 left in regulation as Josh Tarzwell grabbed the puck off a draw, spun around and beat Paddock from the right circle.
The Pats’ goalie was on the bench for an extra attacker when Pratt — causing havoc out front — jammed in a centring pass from Robbie Holmes to make it 2-2.
The last-minute comeback was enough to earn a single point, but not two. Red Deer’s Arshdeep Bains ended it just 48 seconds into OT when he took a handoff behind the net and slipped a wraparound past the outstretched left skate of Paddock, who got caught leaning the other way.
The final shots were 27-27.
“I think we played a lot in their end,” said Smith, whose team (2-11-2-0) showed plenty of jump in the contest. “We played a solid game, got lots of shots on net. We just didn’t get the bounces we needed to win the game. We’ll build off that one and try to win the next one.”
The Pats are idle until Friday when they play host to the Swift Current Broncos.

        gharder@postmedia.com
      
