
# White nationalists caught filming 'propaganda video' at Emmett Till memorial

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:53:48+00:00**

Author: **John Gage**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/white-nationalists-caught-filming-propaganda-video-at-emmett-till-memorial)

A group of people carrying the white nationalist flag were caught on camera filming a propaganda movie at a Mississippi memorial for Emmett Till.
Security footage from the incident shows people, who appear to be mostly or all men, carrying a Mississippi flag and a flag used by the League of the South. The group is known to be associated with neo-Nazi groups and advocates for an independent South.
"They basically showed a group of people coming out and filming what looked to be some kind of propaganda video at the historic marker," Patrick Weems, the executive director of the Emmett Till Memorial Commission, said. "We hope this hate speech leads to positive action."
"What we want to know is, where are all the white people?" a man in the video can be heard saying before a security alarm goes off, causing them to scatter.
Till was beaten and murdered in 1955 when he was 14 years old after he was accused of whistling at a white woman. Two men connected to the murder were subsequently found not guilty by a Mississippi jury, but they later admitted to the crime.
The memorial marker, which was created in 2008, was recently made bulletproof after previous iterations of the memorial were vandalized by gunfire.
