
# Kate Middleton Matched Meghan Markle in Blue Dress and Earrings for the National Emergencies Launch

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Alyssa Bailey**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/celebrities/a29722911/kate-middleton-blue-dress-national-emergencies-launch/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

Meghan Markle and Kate Middleton both had events today in the lead-up to Remembrance Day, and both duchesses wore navy outfits. Kate arrived in a belted blue dress and dangle earrings (from Princess Diana's collection) to the launch of the National Emergencies Trust at St Martin-in-the-Fields. She wore a poppy pin with her hair blown out. She completed her look with black patent heels and a black clutch.
Meghan wore a navy coat to lay a cross at the Field of Remembrance in Westminster Abbey earlier today. The two duchesses are set to reunite on Sunday during Remembrance Sunday festivities.
Their union comes shortly after Us Weekly reported that while Kate was concerned about William and Prince Harry's rift and Meghan's struggle with the British tabloids, she was trying not to get involved. A source told the outlet that Kate "hates to see" Meghan and Harry "so miserable," but “while Kate’s concerned about Harry and Meghan’s well-being, she tries to stay out of the drama.”
Several upcoming events for Kate and her husband Prince William were announced by Kensington Palace this week. The two are set to attend the Royal Variety Performance at the Palladium Theatre on Monday, November 18, which will benefit the Royal Variety Charity.
Ahead of that, Kate will do a solo event and visit East Anglia’s Children’s Hospices’ new hospice The Nook on Friday, November 15. The Duchess will meet children and families being supported by EACH, tour the hospice, and officially open the building, per Kensington Palace.
