
# Solon slams Rizal mayor for driving motorbike sans helmet

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:23:45+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Ponce Pacpaco**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/solon-slams-rizal-mayor-driving-motorbike-sans-helmet)

ACT-CIS party-list Rep. Eric Go Yap lamented the Facebook post of  Cainta Mayor Johnielle Keith Pasion Nieto who drove a motorcycle  without a helmet to catch a wedding event where he stood as godfather.
“Sana sinabayan na din niya (Nieto) ng pagpapakita ng pagsunod sa  batas,” said Yap who expressed disappointment on Nieto’s Facebook post “late na sa kasal..eh ninong…para-paraan lang para umabot..” with his picture while driving the motorcycle.
In a report submitted to the House committee on ways and means chaired  by Albay Rep. Joey Sarte Salceda last month on the bill that seeks to increase the road user tax by at least 300 percent, Land  Transportation Office (LTO) chief Edgar Galvante said motorcycle  accidents are now the ninth leading cause of death among Filipinos.
The Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) declared that a total of  582,183 Filipino deaths were reported in 2016, or an average of 1,591  per day, 66 per hour and one per minute.
While Nieto just tried to be cool, Yap was disappointed the way the  mayor responded to negative comments on his post for violating  Republic Act (RA) No. 10054 or An Act Mandating All Motorcycle Riders  to Wear Standard Protective Motorcycle Helmets While Driving and  Providing Penalties Thereof.
“Bilang halal na opisyal ng pamahalaan, malaki ang responsibilidad mo  (Nieto) sa mga taong nasasakupan mo lalo na sa pagsunod sa batas at alituntunin. Lead by example. Kung ano ang ginagawa ng mayor nila, sigurado tayo na may ilan na gagawin din kung ano ang ipinakita mo,” said Yap.
When a netizen asked Nieto where was his helmet, Nieto allegedly responded “I will wear it when I need it, I have a pre-signed waiver that absolves anyone from liability, for any injury I sustain because of my decision not to wear it, particularly on  occasions when I know it is not necessary.”
Yap said Nieto as Cainta mayor should be the one leading the campaign  to strengthen the implementation of traffic laws, particularly RA No.  10054, to save lives and properties.
“Kung hindi ka nagsuot ng helmet dahil sabi mo may pre-signed waiver ka, baka magulat tayo isang araw lahat ng motorcycle riders sa Cainta ay wala ng helmet dahil lahat mayroon ng waiver na ‘yan na sinasabi mo. Habang ang mga traffic enforcer at iba pang kawani ng pamahalaan  ay walang tigil sa pagpapaalala sa mga riders ng safety measures,  ipinakikita mo pa na p’wede pala na hindi sumunod. Now ask yourself!  Anong mensahe ang pinapadala mo sa constituents mo?” Yap asked.
