
# This week on Sunday Morning (November 10)

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:38:00+00:00**

Author: **CBS News**

Original: [CBS News](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/this-week-on-sunday-morning-november-10-2019/)


        
          WATCH THE FULL NOVEMBER 10 EPISODE!
        
      
COVER STORY: With deepest sympathy: The complications of coping with grief | Watch VideoDealing with death is simply part of living life, as every person who dies leaves behind loved ones who must face a grieving process. And while most of us eventually adapt to a "new normal," one in 10 endures what researchers calls "complicated grief." For them the acute phase of grief never lets up. Susan Spencer investigates the study of grief, and how a website, Modern Loss, is sharing personal stories of grief, loss and coping from around the world, sometimes with unexpected twists.
BOOK EXCERPT: "Modern Loss: Candid Conversation About Grief. Beginners Welcome."Rebecca Soffer writes that, when communing about grief in a social media era, no "like" can replace a conversation, or a hug, or shared double martinis.
BOOK EXCERPT: "Black Widow" by Leslie Gray StreeterThe Palm Beach Post columnist recounts the terrible night when her life was turned upside-down, and her unplanned, forced accommodation to the newly-dominant emotion of grief.

        For more info:
      
       ALMANAC: "Dr. Livingstone, I presume?" | Watch VideoOn November 10, 1871 the Scottish explorer who'd disappeared in Africa while searching for the source of the Nile was found by a reporter for the New York Herald. Jane Pauley reports.       
MOVIES:  How two "Forrest Gump" actors served their country | Watch VideoTwo actors who appeared in the 1994 film "Forrest Gump," which featured harrowing scenes of combat in Vietnam and the anguish of veterans upon their return home, would themselves serve the military after the movie wrapped. Gary Sinise, who played Lt. Dan, formed the Gary Sinise Foundation to aid returning servicemembers, while Michael Humphreys, who played Tom Hanks' character as a child, signed up for the Army and was deployed for 18 months in Anbar Province, Iraq. Twenty-five years after the film's release, Mark Strassmann talked with Sinise and Humphreys about the film's impact on their lives.

        For more info:
      
"MOBITUARIES": Marlene Dietrich goes to war | Watch VideoDuring World War II the German-born Hollywood film star fought for her adopted country. 
To hear the full "Mobituaries" audiobook excerpt "Marlene Dietrich Goes to War," click here.   

        For more info:
      
TELEVISION: "The Crown" | Watch VideoTime marches on, even for royalty. As the hit Netflix series "The Crown" returns for its third season, the young and glamorous Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, played to critical acclaim by Claire Foy and Matt Smith, are out; the more mature Olivia Colman and Tobias Menzies are in. Mark Phillips spent time on the set with Colman and Helena Bonham Carter (who co-stars as Princess Margaret), and with series creator and writer Peter Morgan, to discuss the show about a family in extraordinary circumstances.

        
          To watch a trailer for Season 3 of "The Crown" click on the video player below:
        
      
