
# Laughing thugs blast Domino's store with firework leaving girl with burns

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:57:42+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Ward, Anna Ye**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/laughing-thugs-blast-dominos-store-20787788)

A bunch of yobs laughed as they blasted a Domino's store with a firework and left a young girl injured.
Egged on by his pals, a masked thug is seen on video lighting the small explosive and throwing it inside the pizza store before running away.
A customer is later seen running towards the door in an attempt to escape the blast.
A 12-year-old girl was left with burns after the explosion last night in Binley, a suburb of Coventry.
Two Snapchat videos were posted on Spotted Coventry City Facebook page last night captioned: “Destiny you and your little friends think this is f **  funny.
 
“[A] 12-year-old child has burns to her back and hair. How is it funny? What if it were one of your family members I am sure you would not be laughing. Absolute scum. Happened near Princethorpe way, Binley.”
The first video by Snapchat user 'Destiny' shows several people running away from Domino's before a large blast and a crackle of fireworks. Some onlookers are heard laughing.
Another video by Snapchat user 'LK's Life' is close-up footage of the thugs who committed the crime.
 
Dressed in black and with his hood up and face covered, a man begins to light a firework just outside the Domino's door.
One delinquent is heard saying: "Light it, light it."
Another is heard saying: "Oh my god, he's throwing it in there."
Once the fuse is alight, the yob opens the door and launches the fireworks at staff and customers in the store.
 
The group of men are then heard laughing as a person is seen trying to run away from the blast.
The videos have angered many in the comments section of Spotted Coventry City's Facebook post.
One commenter, Carley Marie Jessop, wrote: “That is awful, what a s***ty thing to do, what if there were kids in there?”
Michelle Court said: "What a****. May be a visit to a burns unit might make them think.”
 
Nathaniel Green also wrote: “What is wrong with people nowadays.”
The incident has left many feeling fireworks should be banned.
Joleen Ruth said: “Oh my god this is terrible! How are these stupid kids getting hold of fireworks! I think they should be banned and only sold to organisations!”
Wes Pencheon added: “Exactly one of the many reasons why fireworks should be banned.”
Kevin Hawkins wrote: “Ban fireworks, no reason for them.”
Lynn Gregor said: “Fireworks should be banned! Only to be sold to displays! To many t**** running around the streets!”
The police, ambulance service, and Domino's have been approached for comment.
