
# 2020 BMW M2 CS revealed - UPDATE

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:51:51+00:00**

Author: **Scott Collie**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805466/2020-bmw-m2-cs-leaked/)

- shares
UPDATE, 12:10pm: BMW has now officially revealed the M2 CS. We've replaced the leaked images with official pictures, and have added details about the car's performance.
19 November, 09:51am: The BMW M2 CS has been unveiled ahead of its launch at the Los Angeles motor show, revealing the most aggressive take on the soon-to-be-replaced 2 Series yet.
The car is be a more aggressive take on the already pumped-up M2 Competition. There's a subtle carbon-fibre lip spoiler on the bootlid, a carbon-fibre diffuser, a carbon splitter, and a more aggressive bonnet complete with a vent on top.
It also rides on a set of spindly 19-inch gold wheels, behind which hide larger M Sport brakes. The roof is made of carbon-fibre, too, to help lower the centre of gravity.
Inside, the cabin has been stripped back in the same way as the M3 and M4 CS.
The transmission tunnel is trimmed in suede and the seats are lightweight body-hugging units, although BMW hasn't fitted the same carbon-weave door trims and cloth handles used in the M2's bigger brothers.
You'll also notice the stick in the middle. BMW will offer the M2 CS with a six-speed manual, continuing the car's run as a favourite for the purists. A dual-clutch transmission will also be available as an option, however.
The S55 inline-six engine under the bonnet outputs 331kW – up 30kW on the M2 Competition – and is good for a 4.0-second run to 100km/h in the dual-clutch transmission, and a time of 4.2 seconds in the manual transmission. Flat out you'll be doing 280km/h.
Internally, the M2 CS is known as the 'Drift Machine', but previous spy photos have confirmed the car will be offered with a set of Michelin Pilot Sport Cup 2 tyres nicked from the M4. A set of Michelin Pilot Super Sport tyres are also available as a no-cost option, if you want to use your CS on wet or slippery roads.
Also borrowed from the M3/4 CS is a set of adaptive dampers capable of scrolling through Comfort, Sport and Sport+ modes.
The M2 CS will be officially revealed at the Los Angeles motor show, which starts on November 23. Stay tuned for more when it launches.

        Click the images for the full gallery
      
119
nextprevious2020 BMW M2 CS revealed - UPDATE
