
# Bride’s mum upstages own daughter by wearing white lacy dress to her wedding

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:02:04+00:00**

Author: **Neil Murphy**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/brides-mum-upstages-daughter-wearing-20798890)

There are some unspoken rules when it comes to weddings  - particularly when it comes to upstaging the bride on her big day.
This newlywed's mum didn't get the memo when she opted to wear a white lace gown to her own daughter's nuptials.
Facebook users have expressed their horror after they came across this picture on the That’s It, I’m Wedding Shaming group.
One mortified guest shared the image, and included the caption: “Shaming the s*** out of the mother of the bride.
“I went to a family wedding over the weekend and the bride was gorgeous, it was such a pretty wedding. [But] her mum wore a white, lace dress.”
The snap shows the the mother-of-the bride flaunting a white lace midi-dress with long, lacy sleeves accompanied by the bride and
Facebook users expressed their shock at the woman's
“Call me old fashioned but I’d be p***** off if anyone besides me wore white to my wedding.”
Another added: “I don’t know why mothers are like this. I have four kids, two of which are girls. I would NEVER do anything to ruin their day. This is just sad to me.”
Other Facebook users said the dress looked “cheap” and "classless".
One outraged user said they would have demanded their mum change into a new dress if she had worn it to her own wedding.
“I have seen mothers wear white to their daughter’s wedding… 90% of the time it is a white skirt suit or other non-bridal looking gown", another added.
“If you wear a lacy white gown when your daughter is wearing a lacy white gown as her wedding dress – I shame you.”
