
# Kieran Tierney's Scotland absence explained by Steve Clarke as Arsenal star misses out again

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:28:38+00:00**

Author: **Liam Bryce, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/liam-bryce/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/kieran-tierneys-scotland-absence-explained-20815493)

Steve Clarke has revealed Arsenal requested Kieran Tierney again be left out of the Scotland squad – despite now being a regular in Unai Emery’s side.
The former Celtic left-back is not among the 25-man contingent selected to face Cyprus and Kazakhstan in Euro 2020 qualifying, having sat out during the last international break.
Tierney is recovering from a long-term pelvic issue and also underwent surgery on a double hernia before making a £25million move to London during the summer.
His return is being carefully managed by Arsenal, although he has now made six appearances totalling 426 minutes.
Clarke admits the 22-year-old's continued absence is frustrating but insists he has plenty of depth in the shape of Andy Robertson and Greg Taylor.
The Scotland boss said: "There's an ongoing issue. Arsenal asked us not to select him. It’s a bit frustrating but we have good cover in that position."
Clarke welcomed Steven Naismith back into the fold after he returned to the pitch for Hearts at the weekend.
The striker is another whose season has been plagued by injury but Clarke is convinced he's fit enough to make an impact.
Clarke added: "He hasn’t played much but I spoke to him yesterday and his fitness is good. He expects to start the next game and he’ll be a good addition to the squad."
Also returning are Ryan Jack, Oli McBurnie and Liam Cooper after injury ruled them out of clashes with Russia, Belgium and San Marino.

        Goalkeepers
      
Craig MacGillivray (Portsmouth), David Marshall (Wigan), Jon McLaughlin (Sunderland)

        Defenders
      
Liam Cooper (Leeds Utd), Michael Devlin (Aberdeen), Declan Gallagher (Motherwell), Scott McKenna (Aberdeen), Stephen O’Donnell (Kilmarnock), Liam Palmer (Sheff Wed), Andy Robertson (Liverpool), Greg Taylor (Celtic).

        Midfielders
      
Stuart Armstrong (Southampton), Ryan Christie (Celtic), John Fleck (Sheff Utd), Ryan Jack (Rangers), John McGinn (Aston Villa), Callum McGregor (Celtic), Kenny McLean (Nowrich City), Scott McTominay (Manchester Utd), Oliver Burke (Alves*), James Forrest (Celtic), Ryan Fraser (Bournemouth).

        Strikers
      
Oli McBurnie (Sheff Utd), Steven Naismith (Hearts), Lawrence Shankland (Dundee Utd).
