
# How Will Republicans Run in 2020?

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:45:02+00:00**

Author: **Spencer Bokat-Lindell**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/07/opinion/republicans-Trump-2020.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        This article is the second in a 
        
          two-part series
        
         for the Debatable newsletter about 2020 elections. You can 
        
          sign up here
        
         to receive Debatable on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
      
Hell reportedly froze over on Tuesday night when Andy Beshear — an abortion-rights-supporting, climate-change-believing, same-sex marriage-defending Democrat — eked out a victory over the Republican governor in Mitch McConnell’s Kentucky.
Many observers have been quick to warn against reading too much into Mr. Beshear’s win: The current governor, Matt Bevin, is uniquely unpopular, and Republicans won every other statewide race.
Still, a Democratic victory in a state that Mr. Trump carried by 30 points in 2016 suggests that hitching one’s electoral wagon to the president, as Mr. Bevin did, may have limits — and even risks — in swing suburban districts. At the same time, in more rural Republican strongholds, says Patrick Murray, the director of polling at Monmouth University, Mr. Trump’s appeal has only grown.
The debate: Republicans hoping to take or keep power in the Senate, House and statehouses next year face a strategic choice: Run their own races or tie themselves to the president.
Need a reason? Two words: Richard Nixon. At the height of the Watergate scandal, Jeet Heer notes in The Nation, pundits wondered why Gov. Ronald Reagan of California fervently defended the embattled president. But Mr. Reagan’s steadfast partisanship fueled his rise within the Republican Party after Mr. Nixon resigned in disgrace. This same dynamic, Mr. Heer writes, is playing out again between rank-and-file Republicans and Mr. Trump:
In Mr. Trump’s case, loyalty pays — literally. The president is tapping his fund-raising network to reward cash-strapped senators who stand on the barricades against impeachment, Alex Isenstadt reported for Politico last month. “The donors listen to the president, and he has the most capacity to energize small-dollar contributions by making the case that he needs a Senate majority to be successful,” Scott Jennings, a former political aide in the George W. Bush White House, told Mr. Isenstadt. Another party official told him that Mr. Trump “has the ability to turn on the money spigot like no one else.”
The benefits of standing against Mr. Trump, meanwhile, are not so clear. Impeachment is relatively unpopular in the swing states. And his poor reception at recent sporting events notwithstanding, Republicans still like the president: Their approval of him has never dipped below 79 percent, according to Julie Pace at The Associated Press (a recent A.P. poll put his approval rating at 85 percent). In the end, Liz Peek argues for Fox News, the base knows best:
Aligning entirely with the president is a death sentence for the Republican Party, argues Timothy P. Carney in The Washington Examiner. While Mr. Trump may be popular, Mr. Carney says, Tuesday’s election proves his appeal doesn’t extend to the Republican Party as a whole:
That’s a problem, Mr. Carney says, because while the president hasn’t added people to the party’s long-term roster, he has pushed people off it — particularly white suburban women. Ryan Costello, a former Republican congressman from the Philadelphia suburbs, went so far as to call President Trump “not a benefit but a burden” with such voters, warning that “there appears to be an electoral realignment in the suburbs.”
Impeachment makes entirely ignoring the president impossible, but the Republican strategist Michael Steele told NPR that candidates concerned about alienated voters would be wise to give Mr. Trump a wide berth:
That strategy may be working for some Republicans such as Susan Collins, who criticized Mr. Trump’s call for China to investigate Joe Biden but has refrained from expressing an opinion one way or the other on impeachment. Ms. Collins’s approval ratings have plummeted over the past year and a half, but she was still polling far ahead of her Democratic challenger, Sara Gideon, as of this summer (that could change, of course).
The only option for Republicans, writes Tim Chapman, the executive director of the conservative policy advocacy organization Heritage Action for America, is to make 2020 about a right-wing agenda, not Mr. Trump’s personality:
Even if Republicans aren’t of one mind about how to orient themselves in relation to the president, there’s little question about how they will approach their Democratic opponents. Last April, the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said he was advising his party’s Senate candidates to go on the offense and advertise themselves as “the firewall that saves the country from socialism.”

        Do you have a point of view we missed? Email us at 
        
          debatable@nytimes.com
        
        . Please note your name, age and location in your response, which may be included in the next newsletter.
      
Are the suburbs turning Democratic? It depends, report Sabrina Tavernise and Robert Gebeloff. [The New York Times]
Stanley B. Greenberg predicts that the Republican Party is doomed. [The New York Times]
Geoffrey Skelley hazards that primary challengers could keep some Republicans from voting to remove Mr. Trump from office, if impeachment comes to that. [FiveThirtyEight]
And over on Fox: Laura Ingraham says “there is no G.O.P. in 2020 without Trump.” [Fox News]

        Here’s what readers had to say about the last debate: 
        
          How do the Democrats beat Trump in 2020?
        
      
Mark from Michigan commented: “What matters to me is to leave a better America for my kids. We won’t get there without some serious reforms, of medical coverage, of economic justice, of our constant warfare. Republicans won’t help. I accept that, and just give up on them. Half the Democrats won’t help either. The centrists make promises they’ve made for decades and never kept. They won’t do it. They are Republican-Lite. That makes them to me the same enemy as the Republicans.”
Gloria from South Carolina said: “The party has to look at issues that won the country for Trump, like the basic issue of immigration. No one thought Mexico would pay for it, but a majority of people wanted the border-control issue resolved. The Dems waffle on this. … I’m an independent and despise Trump, but I consider the need for border control as an important issue.”
Chris from New York commented: “‘Ms. Price writes that by next November, seven million young people of color will have turned 18 since the 2016 election.’ Sounds good as potential Dem voters, but where are they? Obviously if the majority are in solid blue states they won’t make a difference in terms of the Electoral College.”

        Continue reading the main story
      
