
# How to get presale tickets for the Westlife shows in Falkirk and Inverness next year

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:45:20+00:00**

Author: **Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/things-to-do/how-presale-tickets-westlife-shows-20796610)

Westlife may not be playing Glasgow or Edinburgh as part of their ‘Stadiums in the Summer’ 2020 tour, but you will be able to see them in Falkirk and Inverness.
Nicky Byrne, Shane Filan, Mark Feehily and Kian Egan will perform at Falkirk Stadium , Grangemouth and Tulloch Caledonian Stadium , Inverness next June.
Fans will be treated to the global pop kings performing all of their greatest hits including 'Swear It Again', ‘Flying Without Wings’ and ‘You Raise Me Up’ as well as sensational up-tempo new songs from their forthcoming new album ‘Spectrum’.
 
The ‘ Stadiums in the Summer ’ announcement follows the phenomenal success of Westlife's remarkable comeback and comes as the band prepares to release their brand new album ‘Spectrum’ on November 15.
And if you pre-order ‘Spectrum’ on any format before 4pm on Monday, November 4 you’ll receive a unique passcode for early access tickets to Westlife’s UK Summer 2020 tour.
If you have already pre-ordered the album from the official Westlife store, you are automatically eligible for presale access.
Codes will be emailed from 6pm on Monday, November 4 ahead of the presale starting on Tuesday, November 5 at 9am - fans will be able ti buy up to 8 tickets on a single code.
 
Tickets go on general sale at 9am on Friday, November 8 through Ticketmaster , but there are a number of presales starting on Tuesday along with the album pre-order access - you’ll find all the details below.

        Tickets go on general sale at 9am on Friday, November 8 through Ticketmaster here .
      
 
