
# Save $600 On The Microsoft Surface Pro 6

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:26:46+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-microsoft-surface-pro-6-sale-cheap-buydig.html)

BuyDig is shaving $600 off of the regular price of the Microsoft Surface Pro 6. That brings the price down to just $699 – for almost half off of its regular price.
This is for the Surface Pro 6 with the Intel Core i5 chipset, 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. That's a pretty decent tablet for this price, actually. Not to mention the fact that this is normally $1299.
It has a 12.3-inch display with a 3:2 aspect ratio, which does make it a bit taller than most other tablets and laptops. But it does make it easier to use for browsing the web, since it is taller. It has a touchscreen, since this is a tablet that is looking to replace your laptop, that makes plenty of sense. And at 12.3-inches, it's not super large, so you can actually use it as a tablet.
Advertisement
The whole thing about the Surface Pro 6 is the fact that this is a much lighter computer that you can take back and forth to school or work, without having to compromise on the performance of your computer. And that's what the Surface Pro 6 provides. It's pretty powerful and comes with a full version of Windows 10 – in fact, it's the same version that is available on any other Windows-powered computer. So there's no corners cut here.
Now, the only downside here, is that this does not come with the TouchType cover in the box. You'll need to pay a bit extra for the TouchType cover. But that shouldn't be too big of a deal, they do usually go for around $129.
You can pick up the Microsoft Surface Pro 6 from BuyDig right now by clicking here. This price isn't going to last long, and likely won't be any cheaper when Black Friday comes around later this month. So now's the time to grab one.
Advertisement

        Surface Pro 6 - BuyDig - $699
      
