
# Mark, My Words: Morrissey’s latest stunt misses the point – it’s not the autograph fans want, it’s the moment with their idol

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:20:37+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/blogs/nme-blogs/mark-words-morrisseys-autograph-stunt-misses-point-fandom-2564267)


        Morrissey is selling autographed copies of other artists' albums - columnist Mark Beaumont thinks he's selling himself short
      
“For Mr Mark – 20 years on with love and gratitude, Coldplay”.
As I pulled the signed white label of ‘Everyday Life’ from the envelope, I was hit by a broad range of emotion. A fondness for a band I’ve championed through thick and thin, despite all the ‘bedwetter’ jibes, the misguided accusations of beigeness, the EDM bits and the new age divorces. A deep shame that it’s been 20 years and I really should’ve made some money by now.
And finally, of course, a lingering certainty that Morrissey is wrong.
This last thought was likely to be my basic rock hack training kicking in. All music journalists are forced to undergo rigorous anti-Morrissey brainwashing regimes before we’re legally allowed to voice an opinion on anything in public or private.
This is important work, enshrined into law by the They’ve All Got It Infamy Act of 1984, to ensure that Morrissey, and Morrissey alone, is hounded, victimised and silenced, despite himself being utterly blameless and faultless in word or deed. Aware of this grand and intricate conspiracy, Morrissey will now – quite rightly – only grant audience to those red-pilled writers who have put themselves through arduous months of psychological deprogramming, and as a result have been scrubbed so thoroughly from the journalistic register and erased from social media by this evil cult of the fourth estate, that you’d almost think that he was interviewing himself.
It wasn’t Morrissey’s support of far-right politicians or questionable views on the Chinese that irked me so. I’ll leave that argument to columnists with a far greater legal budget, as much as Moz wearing a t-shirt reading “Fuck Mark, My Words” would work wonders for my traffic footfall, second only to Liam Gallagher calling me a cunt again.
No, it was his attitude to autographs. On merch stands at recent Morrissey shows have appeared albums by the likes of David Bowie, Lou Reed and Patti Smith, signed by Moz and priced at $300 a pop. The equivalent, you might say, of Banksy shredding a Monet.
