
# Apps that will not work on Microsoft Surface Pro X

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Pradeep**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/apps-that-will-not-work-on-microsoft-surface-pro-x/)

Last month, Microsoft announced the new Surface Pro X device running full Windows 10. Instead of an Intel processor, Microsoft partnered with Qualcomm to create a custom SQ1 chipset to power this device. Despite being the thinnest Surface, the new Pro X offers decent performance and great visual experience through its edge-to-edge 13” touchscreen. One of the main limitations of Surface Pro X is its app support. Surface Pro X will not install 64-bit applications that have not been ported to ARM64. Microsoft has mentioned the below in the footnotes section of the Surface Pro X product listing page:
I don’t understand how an average consumer visiting a Microsoft Store will come to know about this huge limitation before buying the device. Even if someone wants to buy this device after knowing its limitations, there is no definite way to learn which apps will run and which apps won’t. For example, it was recently reported that Dropbox app won’t work on Surface Pro X. Cisco AnyConnect client which is critical for many enterprises users won’t work on Pro X. Windows Fax and Scan won’t work on Pro X. Such apps could be deal-breaker for many users. After some research, I found the below content from Microsoft regarding Surface Pro X app compatibility.
Today, I came across a new community initiative on Reddit that will list down the apps that are supported and not supported on Surface Pro X. You can check out the document here.
While Microsoft claims that developers have to just recompile their UWP and C++ Win32 apps to run natively on Windows 10 on ARM devices, developers are facing several issues during the process. In my opinion, Microsoft should start a new developer assistance program like how they used to have one during Windows Phone days to port Android and iOS apps. Also, Microsoft should work with top app developers and make their apps compatible with Surface Pro X. If you are a developer and you are interested in bringing your app to Windows on ARM, check out this documentation page.
