
# Jamie Carragher reveals why Brendan Rodgers could never become Manchester United manager

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:32:49+00:00**

Author: **Harry Latham-Coyle**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/brendan-rodgers-jamie-carragher-manchester-united-liverpool-leicester-chelsea-arsenal-england-epl-a9180476.html)

Jamie Carragher believes Brendan Rodgers’ time as manager of Liverpool precludes him from ever becoming Manchester United manager.
Rodgers has been put forward as a potential replacement for under-pressure manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Old Trafford.
And though the Northern Irishman has begun the season superbly at Leicester, Carragher thinks his time at Anfield precludes him from ever being appointed by United, but a job at Chelsea or Arsenal is not out of the question.
“Liverpool is out of the question and Manchester United is too because he was Liverpool manager,” Carragher said, as quoted by the Express.
“You look at Arsenal and Chelsea in a few years’ time, whether Frank stays there or not.
“Rodgers has a link to Chelsea, being in the youth set-up and the reserves. They’re the two jobs you’d look at, maybe international wise as well.”
Rodgers was a coach in Chelsea’s youth and reserve team set-ups for four years before stepping up to take a managerial job at Watford.
He has since managed Reading, Swansea, Liverpool and Celtic, before joining Leicester earlier this year, guiding the Foxes to third in the Premier League table after ten games.
Carragher thinks a move into international management may also suit the 46-year-old.
“Who knows how long Gareth Southgate will last for England, whether he goes after the next tournament or the next World Cup,” Carragher commented.
“I think Brendan Rodgers would come into the reckoning because there’s no doubt, when he was flying at Liverpool, his name was continually mentioned for the England job.
“They’re the types of jobs he’ll be looking at but he knows that getting back into the Premier League after what happened with Liverpool, if he could get Leicester into the top four, it gives himself a great chance. It restores his credibility that maybe went a touch in that last season at Liverpool.”
