
# Watch Video: Varun Dhawan strikes 'Coolie No. 1' co-star Sara Ali Khan's popular 'Namaste' pose; leaves the diva stunned

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:42:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/watch-video-varun-dhawan-strikes-coolie-no-1-co-star-sara-ali-khans-popular-namaste-pose-leaves-the-diva-stunned/articleshow/71951026.cms)

Varun Dhawan and Sara Ali Khan are all set to collaborate for the first time in David Dhawan's remake of 'Coolie No. 1'. While the first is currently in the production stage and the actors are shooting for the film in Mumbai they seemed to have developed a good camaraderie.
The 'Coolie No. 1' co-stars were recently spotted at Ayushmann Khurrana's 'Bala' screening last night and they even posed for the shutterbugs before leaving. But what grabbed our attention was their funny banter while posing as Varun struck Sara's popular pose whenever she is spotted in the city and looking at that the young starlet gave a stunned look and after flashing her beautiful smile she said, "Don't do that."
Varun's fans were in fora surprise as well as the talented actor made a grand entry at the screening with his girlfriend Natasha Dalal. The couple has been dating for quite some time now but have always kept their relationship away from all the media limelight.
Meanwhile, Varun-Sara's 'Coolie No. 1' is a remake of Govinda and Karisma Kapoor blockbuster film. The film also features Paresh Rawal and Sahil Vaid in significant roles is slated to release on 1 May 2020.
