
# Live sheep beheaded in horror undercover footage from inside slaughterhouse

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:24:52+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/live-sheep-beheaded-horror-undercover-20807965)

Heartbreaking undercover footage has revealed a live sheep being beheaded from inside a slaughterhouse that was already under investigation for mistreating livestock.
The sheep is shown being beheaded as it hangs in mid-air in the shocking video recorded at Farmers Fresh abattoir in Wrexham, north Wales.
The disturbing video, which Mirror Online has decided not to publish in full , also shows sheep on a conveyor belt struggling under the weight of headless corpses.
Sheep are also seen getting their heads and limbs stuck in the conveyor belt, with one having its throat cut after being trapped.
Pictures taken at the abattoir, which is supposedly 'under investigation', also shows sheep carcasses lying on the slaughterhouse floor, having died from unknown causes.
The footage filmed during July and August 2019 was released by animal protection organisation, Animal Equality.
The group claims much of this suffering took place when a Food Standards Agency inspector present.
Workers are also seen brutally yanking at the trapped sheep out of the conveyor belt.
The RSPCA has stated that it has 'concerns' about the footage, and has called for anyone with information to come forward 'as a matter of urgency'.
Abigail Penny, acting executive director of Animal Equality UK, said: “These defenceless animals are treated like commodities, placed on a conveyor that delivers them to their death.
"Slaughterhouses are inherently unforgiving places and this systematic neglect – made all the worse by poorly designed equipment – causes even more distress for these terrified lambs and sheep.”
She added: “We demand justice for these vulnerable animals.
"The Food Standards Agency must take immediate action against Farmers Fresh Wales and their own officer who failed in his duties. If people want to stop supporting the suffering that takes place in slaughterhouses, it has never been easier to choose plant-based options instead of meat.”
 
Fellow animal welfare charity, Animal Aid filmed abuse in the same slaughterhouse earlier in 2019.
Its undercover exposé prompted the launch of a criminal investigation by the Food Standards Agency (FSA).
Animal Equality has sent a letter of complaint reporting the findings to the FSA, in which it urged it to take enforcement action against Farmers Fresh.
Farmers Fresh Wales claims the workers seen in the footage were fired.
A spokesman for the abattoir, who did not want to be identified or give their name, told Mirror Online: "This was dealt with some months ago as soon as we were aware of it.
"The people were sacked straight away."
Farmers Fresh took over the abattoir in January this year and has operations in Kenilworth and Warwickshire.
