
# Review: Death Stranding

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Carter**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/review-death-stranding-568760.phtml)

It's nigh impossible to do justice to Death Stranding in just a few paragraphs. You've seen the promos, the famous faces, the web of intrigue spun by industry veteran Hideo Kojima; and either checked in or checked out of this hotel of madness.
So let's try to understand it together with a full review, shall we?

        Death Stranding (PC, PS4 [reviewed])Developer: Kojima ProductionsPublisher: SonyReleased: November 8, 2019 (PS4) / Summer 2020 (PC)MSRP: $59.99
      
One of the first things you do in Death Stranding is enter your birthday, which allegedly impacts gameplay by influencing your "DOOMS" rating. Yes, this is a Hideo Kojima joint — strap in, if you haven't already.
While I'll refrain from diving too deeply into the narrative, suffice to say there's a quiet (ha) beauty to it amid all of the "delivery babies that spot shadow beasts" absurdity. It looks and sounds as damn fine as coffee on a PS4 Pro, with a rousing lead performance from Norman Reedus as professional "The Legend" delivery man, Sam Porter Bridges. That beauty isn't so quiet on a technical level, as Kojima and his team have been toiling away for years with their Decima engine: it paid off.
Not just in a "you can see the pores on the actor's faces" kind of way that wowed everyone back in 2011 when L.A. Noire hit the scene, but in a meaningful fashion; with all the wild bells and whistles that go with something extracted from the mind of Kojima. I love Reedus' grunting, raw, and primal delivery in nearly everything he does: Death Stranding included. Léa Seydoux is mesmerizing as "Fragile," who has her name emblazoned all over her outfit just in case you forget her moniker. Hell, just about every cast member, big or small, feels essential to the experience and dedicated to their role. You haven't lived until you've seen Mads Mikkelsen in a Santa hat shouting "ho ho ho!"
Unless you're a huge Kojima nut you probably came here for an actual gameplay discussion, so let's go to it. No bullshitting around: you run about for most of the game as a postman in a quest to reunite America by reactivating internet terminals. You can scan for packages — that's what the fancy arm-like radar thing does — jump, grab stuff, and occasionally fight.
It doesn't take an hour and a half to get started like some Metal Gear Solid games. You're grabbing packages — and bodies — and confronting the main baddies (shadow things) very quickly. Your main job is to regulate Sam's blood and stamina gauges, and not slip and slide down hills or off cliffs by bracing yourself with L2/R2, even with a comical amount of cargo on your back (I have trained for this my entire life). Oh and avoid those menacing "BTs" — horrifying creatures that you can't clearly see that figuratively drag you to hell — plus human threats. No big deal.
