
# James Bond is bloody, battered in 'No Time to Die' sneak peek

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:58:17+00:00**

Author: **Dan Cain**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/james-bond-no-time-to-die-daniel-craig-bloody-photo)

James Bond looks battered and bloody in a new teaser pic from "No Time To Die."
The official 007 Instagram account continued to whet fans' appetites for the 25th installment of the iconic franchise by sharing a pic of Daniel Craig as the spy.
Wearing braces over his white top and black trouser, Craig's face is bloodied and is etched with concern.

        
          DANIEL CRAIG'S REIGN AS JAMES BOND ENDS AS 'NO TIME TO DIE' FILMING WRAPS
        
      
The account captioned the snap: "Back in action. Daniel Craig as 007 in NO TIME TO DIE."
Film fans flocked to the comments section, writing how they can't wait for Bond's return to the big screen.
The post comes a week after Craig said goodbye to James Bond for the last time as filming for "No Time To Die" wrapped.

        
          ROGER MOORE'S SON GEOFFREY SAYS STAR LEFT JAMES BOND FRANCHISE AT THE RIGHT TIME
        
      

        
          FORMER JAMES BOND PIERCE BROSNAN WANTS 007 TO BE A WOMAN
        
      
In a picture shared on the official 007 account, the 51-year-old actor  was seen wearing his classic black tie suit while standing beside director Cary Fukunaga.
The image, which looked like it was taken in Pinewood Studios, was captioned: “That’s a wrap on #NoTimeToDie See you in cinemas April 2020.”
Craig, who has played the iconic character five times, was seen smiling broadly while holding the clapperboard.

        
          NEXT 007 TO BE REVEALED IN 'NO TIME TO DIE'
        
      
The latest Bond has "Fleabag" star Phoebe Waller-Bridge among the writers and is due for release in April.
Director Fukunaga is so keen to keep the plot under wraps he has reportedly filmed three endings.
Insiders say not even Craig knows the true ending — as Fukunaga is desperate to avoid the film's climax leaking out.
The Sun revealed Bond will face off with an eco-friendly evil mastermind in the film.

        
          RAMI MALEK WOULD ONLY PLAY BOND VILLAIN IF THERE WAS NO RELIGIOUS MOTIVE
        
      

        
          'AVENGERS' STAR SAMUEL L. JACKSON POKES FUN AT DANIEL CRAIG COMPLAINING ABOUT JAMES BOND ROLE
        
      
His unnamed nemesis — nicknamed Greenfinger by insiders — has a lair powered by an algae farm and with a Zen garden.
As the plot is shrouded in secrecy, it is not clear what the villain is plotting to do or how 007 confronts him.
But a source said: “The baddie’s lair apparently has a giant algae farm.
“Something like that would look very sinister and green so will look great on the screen.

        CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
      
“Quite how it will impact Bond only the scriptwriters can know but fans will be keen to find out.”

        This article originally appeared in The Sun.
      
