
# Video: Janhvi Kapoor wishes sister Khushi on her birthday with an unseen piggyback ride clip!

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:47:16+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/video-janhvi-kapoor-wishes-sister-khushi-on-her-birthday-with-an-unseen-piggyback-ride-clip/articleshow/71917638.cms)

Khushi Kapoor turned a year older today and while she is away in US pursuing further studies, her sibling Janhvi Kapoor posted an adorable birthday wish for her on Instagram. Sharing a compilation of 10 pictures and videos of the birthday girl, Janhvi wrote, “I’m so proud of you. You’re my lifeline. Happy birthday I miss you so much.” And this collection included an adorable video of Khushi giving her elder sister a piggyback ride in a hotel room. The birthday wish compilation ended with Janhvi and Khushi singing ‘Happy Birthday’ and it is the most adorable thing on the internet today.
Khushi is studying at the prestigious New York Film Academy and had left the country in September. She was recently visited by Khushi and Boney Kapoor. Khushi will reportedly complete her education after which she will plan her career in Bollywood.
On the other hand, Janhvi Kapoor has already made her mark in front of the camera. After her debut film ‘Dhadak’, the actress has several films lined up. She has been shooting for ‘Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl’ as well as horror comedy ‘Roohi Afza’ with Rajkummar Rao. Janhvi also has ‘Dostana 2’ with Karitk Aaryan and Karan Johar’s multi-starrer ‘Takht’.
