
# Emmerdale fans disgusted over Moira's 'low' excuse for cheating on Cain

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:34:04+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdale-fans-disgusted-over-moiras-20820980)

Emmerdale's Moira Dingle likened her fling with Nate Robinson to "self-harming", as she gave husband Cain Dingle her reasons for cheating on him.
Cain finally allowed Moira to have her say in the latest episode, weeks on from him discovering her fling with his secret son Nate Robinson.
An emotional Moira begged for another chance, as he refused to hear her out.
But as she returned to their home during Tuesday's episode of the ITV soap, she told him why she really cheated on him before opening up on her secret struggles.
Sat down, Moira burst into tears before revealing how she has felt "numb" for a while, also confessing she felt the need to be "punished".
 
After the death of her daughter Holly and ex James Barton in 2016, she ended up murdering sister-in-law Emma Barton a year later.
Her son Adam Barton was forced to flee the village early last year after he took the blame for the murder.
Since then her and husband Cain had been on and off, with his own torment after believing he'd killed Joe Tate last year sending him off the rails.
But the pair soon got back on track, until Moira cheated on Cain with Nate - tearing them apart for good.
After opening up on her losses, Cain refused to allow her to blame Holly's death or Adam's departure on her betrayal.
It's then that Moira claimed she was punishing herself and "sticking the knife in" before life got the chance, not being deserving of happiness.
She told Cain that she slept with Nate "because she wanted to", before declaring she could only describe it as "self-harming".
Moira confessed: "I'm selfish and I’m messed up but for a while it took me somewhere else... is that what you wanted to hear?"
She added: "The only way I can describe it is like self-harming. I feel like I should be punished and I don’t deserve to be happy.
 
"The part of me that does this, she doesn’t care, she knows the hurt she’s causing but does it anyway.
"I think I did it because it forces me to feel something, because most of the time I just feel numb, like my life is on autopilot and I’m just going through the motions and it's only when I risk it all that I realise how much I love."
Cain wasn't buying her excuses though, telling her she'd already lost him despite her pleas to let her get counselling and try to work on their marriage.
Viewers were also having none of it, with some even blasting Moira for comparing her fling to self-harm - while one viewer suggested that Moira wasn't wrong in her claims and even praised the soap for shedding light on the idea that sex is a possible form of self-harm.
One fan said: "Can't believe Moira just compared cheating with self-harming, that's so bad, how low can u get."
Another agreed: "Did Moira really use self-harm as an excuse wow that’s low!"
A disagreeing viewer commented: "Sex can be used as a form of self harm. Quite powerful for #Emmerdale to point it out."

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
