
# Kristen Stewart’s Flirty Bar Patron On 'SNL' Faced Some Tough Competition

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:32:20+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/kristen-stewarts-flirty-bar-patron-on-snl-faced-some-tough-competition-19291112)

Spoilers ahead for the Nov. 2 episode of Saturday Night Live. When Kristen Stewart hosted Saturday Night Live in the past, she flirted her way into Vanessa Bayer's heart in a covert Totino's commercial. In the Nov. 2 episode, the Twilight star brought this same energy to her flirty bar patron sketch on SNL, where she attempted to seduce a seemingly curmudgeonly married couple, played by Kenan Thompson and Ego Nwoodim.
Stewart played a bar patron who nervously approached the couple to try and flirt with them. Her romantic interests, however, were celebrating their wedding anniversary and busy eating fish sandwiches from McDonald's and fried crab cakes. As a result, the couple were completely oblivious to Stewart's come-ons. "How long have you been married for?" Stewart asked them hopefully.
"Since birth," Thompson answered.
Intrigued by their relationship, her character offered, "I'd love to just, like get inside that — even if it was just one night." They, however, misunderstood her implication and gestured around the bar, saying there was plenty of people for her to meet here.
When Stewart informed the couple that she's pansexual, Thompson's character answered, "What's that? Like, having sex around pans?"
Defeated by the couple's obliviousness, Stewart's character finally gave up on a potential threesome. Just then, a terrified Bowen Yang came in dressed in a leather bondage suit, whom Thompson and Nwoodim's characters called "Pig Boy." They'd clearly already made plans and had no need for a fourth.
Saturday Night Live on YouTube
