
# I'll Sleep Fine Knowing These Pokémon Have Been Retired

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:30:31+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Basford**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/ill-sleep-fine-knowing-these-pokemon-have-been-retired/)

It's been known for some time that Game Freak was sweeping a few of its beloved Pokémon under the rug with the upcoming Sword & Shield. But now that the full list of 'mons facing the cutting room floor has been revealed, I'm not so mad about it.
I get that for some Pokémon purists, having the full National dex is an important part of the experience but with every new set of creatures each game produces, a huge bunch of throwaways are also introduced. Throwaways, for me, are Pokémon so common within the game, you become infuriated at the sight of them. They are a necessary but painful part of the game.
The original throwaways for me, back when I first played Pokémon Blue on my Pichu-themed Gameboy Colour in the early 2000s, were Rattata, Zubat, Tentacool and, to a lesser extent, Pidgey. While they might have been fun to encounter in the earlier stages when I was just starting out with my beginner team, later on, when I was looking to fill out my Pokédex with rarer entries, they made me rage before I even knew what real stress was as a kid. Going into a cave or a grassy patch without a bulk supply of repels became an infuriating task and that impact hasn't lessened on me as I've gotten older.
As more generations of games were introduced throughout the years, my most-hated 'mons evolved from the Zubats of the Kanto region to the Starlys of Sinnoh and the Lillipups of Unova. Sure, they did nothing to deserve my hate other than being common, but I felt they were wasting my precious time with their presence.
While I came to respect the original Poké-pests and will be somewhat sad they won't haunt me throughout another game, I'm less distraught at the thought of never seeing another Bidoof pop up in Sword & Shield while trying to discover new towns or catch Pokémon with lower instance rates. I know the game will just introduce other common critters for me to hate, as is expected, but at least I won't have to pretend I'm trying to find them all, Woobat included, in an effort to complete my Pokédex — something I haven't really bothered with past the second generation anyway (sorry, Professor Oak and Professor Elm).
