
# Virgin Media is now offering superfast Wi-Fi for under £18 per month

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:05:54+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/money/virgin-media-now-offering-superfast-20793212)

With all the talk of 5G and which providers are offering it next, it’s easy to forget it’s at home where we need the fastest and most reliable connections to the worldwide web.
But prices can quickly mount up when you start looking at faster broadband speeds and different connection types - DSL, ADSL, FTP, FTC, Fibre Optic, etc.
Gone are the simple days of ‘getting broadband’, now you have to decide how much speed you need to suit the whole household as more ‘smart’ devices need a strong, reliable internet connection. 
Virgin Media is well known for its superfast Wi-Fi speeds, but is often beaten when it comes to price.
So bargain hunters couldn't believe their eyes when they spotted the brand's famously fast broadband going for under £18 per month .
 
Originally spotted by Adam Derak, who shared the news on the deals forum, HotUKDeals , Virgin Media 's latest offer gets you twelve months of M100 fibre broadband for £24 a month - although your account will be credited with £75 before your bill, meaning it works out at just £17.75 per month.
Calling it the "Cheapest fibre broadband from Virgin I have seen", the bundle offers average download speeds of 108Mbps, with Virgin claiming its perfect for busy households with 5-9 devices.
To put that into context, Netflix recommends 25Mbps to watch its Ultra HD shows and movies in the best possible quality, so the Virgin Media broadband offer means you'll have enough bandwidth for the whole house to be streaming 4K simultaneously - handy when the football clashes with that movie or TV show you’ve been waiting to watch. 
The deal is only available to new customers and expires on Thursday, November 7th.
Working out at £288 over the whole year, you will need to make sure you cancel after the twelve months initial contract period, otherwise it will go up to a costly £48 per month.
After the Mirror Online checked the deal with Virgin Media, it turns out the deal was originally published by Money Saving Expert on their newsletter.
In the newsletter, Money Saving Expert said: "You pay £24 per month for broadband only over the one year contract, but you get an auto £75 bill credit, so there's nothing to pay for three months. That makes it £213 in total, equivalent to £17.75 per month."
