
# 'It's a matter of huge shame women MPs are quitting because of abuse they face'

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:12:40+00:00**

Author: **Anne Diamond, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/anne-diamond/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/its-matter-huge-shame-women-20795618)

It has always been a man’s world in Westminster.
I remember interviewing some feisty female MPs, including Margaret Thatcher, Betty Boothroyd and the amazing Barbara Castle, and they all told hair-raising stories about the misogyny they had to endure just trying to get their work done.
From patronising ­remarks, sexual innuendo and even trying to find a loo, life was hard for a female MP.
Then along came Blair’s Babes (how patronising was that phrase?) when Tony Blair became Prime Minister and there was an ­impressive influx of female MPs.
Suddenly the idea of equality looked a distinct possibility.
But where have they all gone? And more importantly, why have they disappeared?
It is a matter of huge shame that they are quitting because of the abuse they face on a daily basis.
Among Tory ranks, the female MPs stepping down are on average 10 years younger and have spent a decade less in parliament than retiring male MPs.
Heidi Allen, the ex-Conservative MP who defected to the Liberal Democrats, has spoken of “the ­nastiness and intimidation that’s become commonplace”.
Nicky Morgan and Amber Rudd, both valuable and experienced MPs, have both cited abuse as the reason they’re not standing again.
Diane Abbott, shadow home ­secretary, has often spoken about the appalling abuse she receives online, and wants social media companies to record the real ­identities of people using their ­platforms to tackle the problem.
She believes the fact that people are completely anonymous has made this problem worse.
When the police try to track down the people abusing her, they find they can’t identify them.
Our society has always been cruel to women who stick their head above the parapet.
God forbid they should be opinionated, too!
 That’s why politics has always been a tough gig for women, and perhaps that’s why those who have endured it are so formidable.
But it shouldn’t have to be so toxic.
At least 18 female MPs have announced they are standing down at the general election.
Very bright women will leave parliament – women who could make a difference, make Westminster a more balanced place, make our world fairer and more modern.
Let’s hope there are plenty more women where they came from.
Tory MP Matt Hancock said it was “heartbreaking” to see the number of colleagues stepping down because of the daily stream of online abuse.
“No one, in any job, should be abused in this way. Surely we as a society can be better than this,” he said.
Yes. But talking about it is not enough. We need action from the social media giants to identify these trolls and call them out.
