
# Chiefs, Rulani, His Grandma: 5 Unforgettable Benni Quotes

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:05:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/some-of-benni-mccarthy-s-most-memorable-quotes/666890)

As much as we will remember Benni McCarthy for his passion on the touchline, the head coach has also left us with some unforgettable ‘quotables’.
Cape Town City terminated the contract of McCarthy at midnight on Sunday, leaving much of the football fraternity in shock due to the timing of their announcement.

        
          Read more: 10 Images From The Past Few Days You May Have Missed
        
      
While farewell tributes have poured in from all over, Soccer Laduma takes a look at five memorable quotes from the former head coach, where he enjoyed having quite the dig at his counterparts, the match referee and even his own players.

        The Ref Could Have Worn A Chiefs Shirt…
      
“The referee was terrible today, he might as well have put on a Kaizer Chiefs shirt and then I hear he is from Cape Town so he had to prove a point that he was not being biased?” he told the media after a painful loss to Chiefs at the Cape Town Stadium in October this year.

        Rulani Will Never Come Out On Top In A Fist Fight
      
“So I felt he just needed to know what was going through my mind. I just said, 'you are winning now and you want to kick balls and throw it,' and then when he was chasing for balls I just said 'leave it there! 
“But it wasn’t a fight, if it was a fight he won’t come out on top that I can assure you (laughs),” McCarthy said as he explained the heated exchange of words between himself and Rulani Mokwena this season.

        Pirates Were Not Going To Be Champions On My Watch…
      
“I have to again sincerely apologise to Orlando Pirates that today wasn’t going to be the day where they become champions on my watch,” McCarthy told the media after their 2-2 draw to the Bucs at the end of last season.

        When The Ref Is Chiefs’ Best Player…
      
“But when you’re playing against a Kaizer Chiefs team and their best player is the referee then you know you’ve got no chance.
“I know the league is going to come for me but they are more than welcome. I don’t know how many times this is going to happen before we do something about it,” McCarthy said some time in last season after a defeat to Chiefs. 

        Even My Grandma Could Have Scored…
      
“We play nice football and I could count, 4, 5, at least five goalscoring chances, I think even my Grandma could have put it in,” said McCarthy last season after voicing his frustration for his side's lack of goals. 

        
          Which comment from Coach ‘Benni’ will you always remember? Let us know in the comment section below. 
        
      
