
# Nelson: It's not an austerity budget when you're still borrowing $8B

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:05:18+00:00**

Author: **Chris Nelson, For The Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/nelson-its-not-an-austerity-budget-when-youre-still-borrowing-8b)

As elephants go, this one’s a beast of gigantic proportions.
Yet you wouldn’t guess it, despite the weeping and wailing that’s broken out following the first budget handed down by Jason Kenney’s no-longer-quite-so-new government.
Heck, you’d think Alberta was being deliberately razed in similar fashion to Russia destroying its own crops to deny Napoleon’s Grande Armee food as it advanced on Moscow two centuries ago.
Yet, amidst all this overblown rhetoric from various pundits, special interest groups and opposition MLAs, hardly a peep has been heard regarding the fact the same fellow who, on the campaign trail, lectured us about the need to stop spending more than we bring in, is now planning on borrowing $8.7 billion in the upcoming fiscal year.
That massive amount of deficit spending barely gets a mention today when compared to outrage over cuts to various programs and delays in some large capital spending plans. Maybe we are so accustomed to governments of all stripes borrowing so much it serenely passes us by, even when instituted by one elected on promises of fiscal restraint.
Yes, there’s all manner of verbiage spouting from the United Conservatives about the need for restraint and responsibility. But, in the end, you wonder if this new guy at the helm of the Alberta Treasury is actually just another good, old Joe Ceci, except he sports a blue tie and doesn’t have such an engaging grin.
Because, as usual, all the actual heavy lifting in getting Alberta back to a balanced budget is kicked down the road. Future reductions in public service contracts, possible new deals with doctors, hopes for increases in oil production, a return of international energy companies to Calgary and so on and so on. Everything will line up, we’re told.
But it won’t. Down that wonderful road ahead all sorts of roadblocks loom. Hey, you can cut corporate taxes to zero, but if companies don’t fancy Alberta as a place to set up shop because Ottawa is intent on pushing us back to a society of hunters and gatherers, then such measures mean zip, zero and zilch, despite the completely clueless leader of the Opposition calling this particular measure a multibillion-buck giveaway.
All of this blue-sky thinking was necessitated because Kenney boxed himself in during the election campaign. He ring-fenced health and education from front-line service cuts. Understandable for a fellow seeking election, but like all big-hearted promises there is a price to be paid.
When one department, health, takes up 40 per cent of your budget, then promising to balance the darn thing without touching that area is close to impossible. Throw education into that same pot and you can whistle past the balanced budget graveyard.
Now this may seem a little cruel. After all, at least this latest lot actually recognizes there’s a problem and are doing something. But wade through the marketing spin and sugar-coated commentary and instead look at the actual numbers. If you do, then you’ll likely agree it doesn’t look good. Try counting to eight billion and, as the years turn into decades, you’ll get the drift.
Two or three per cent reductions are simply not going to cut it. We needed at least 10 per cent to even reach the balancing ballpark.
So let’s be realistic, times will not get any easier in Alberta. Those international energy companies that pulled out during the last four years won’t return, not with Ottawa’s current agenda.
Are we actually expecting natural gas prices to triple? Hey, that’s what really backstopped the so-called Klein Revolution, as it was called. Or perhaps we cross our fingers and imagine oil jumping to $100 a barrel. Really? It hardly budged when much of the Saudis’ exporting capacity was blown up a month ago.
That’s reality and as such it will provide many reasons to delay or abandon those promised financial rollbacks in years to come. That’s what happens with four-year plans.
The elephant’s running amok but no one even notices.

        Chris Nelson is a regular columnist for the Calgary Herald.
      
