
# ZTE announces the Blade 10 Prime, Blade 10, and Blade A7 Prime

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joe Fedewa**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/zte-blade-10-prime-blade-10-blade-a7-prime/)

ZTE has announced three new phones today: the ZTE Blade 10 Prime, ZTE Blade 10, and ZTE Blade A7 Prime. The Blade series is ZTE’s most popular and these three new phones look to be great additions to the lineup. The Blade 10 Prime and Blade A7 Prime are available on Visible, while the Blade 10 is available unlocked. These devices are ultra-affordable with some decent specifications. Let’s take a look.
The ZTE Blade 10 Prime features a 6.3-inch FHD+ display with a waterdrop notch. It’s powered by the MediaTek Helio P60 octa-core processor, 3GB of RAM, 64GB of storage, and a 3,200 mAh battery. It has a 16MP camera up front and 16 + 5MP cameras on the back. The device has a 3.5mm headphone jack, microSD card slot, and a USB Type-C port. There is also a fingerprint scanner on the back. The Blade 10 Prime launches with Android 9 Pie and it comes in black.
You may assume the “Prime” model has better specs, but it’s actually the exact same phone as the non-Prime ZTE Blade 10. The only difference is in the bands. The Prime model has LTE Bands B2/4/5/12/13/66 with 2xCA support and Cat. 6 speeds. The non-Prime model has LTE Bands B2/4/5/12/13/66 with 2xCA, Cat. 6 speeds, GSM Bands: Quad, and UMTS Bands B1/2/4/5/8.
You can purchase the ZTE Blade 10 Prime from visible.com for $179. The non-Prime version is available unlocked from zteusa.com for $179 as well.
The ZTE Blade A7 Prime is a smaller device. It features a 6.09-inch HD+ display with a waterdrop notch. It’s powered by the MediaTek Helio A22 (MT6761) quad-core processor, 3GB of RAM, 32GB of storage, and a 3,200 mAh battery. It has a 5MP camera up front and a 16MP camera on the back. The device has a 3.5mm headphone jack, microSD card slot, and a USB Type-C port. There is also a fingerprint scanner on the back. The Blade A7 Prime also launches with Android 9 Pie and it comes in black.
There is no unlocked, non-Prime version of the Blade A7 Prime. It has LTE Bands B2/4/5/13, Cat 4. The device is available from visible.com for $99. Visible will also soon have an offer for new customers to trade in any compatible Android phone for a free Blade A7 Prime.
