
# 'Housefull 4' box office collection Week 1 estimates: The Akshay Kumar starrer looks all set to post a huge first-week figure

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:26:23+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/housefull-4-box-office-collection-week-1-estimates-the-akshay-kumar-starrer-looks-all-set-to-post-a-huge-first-week-figure/articleshow/71847830.cms)

On its way to emerge as yet another successful film of the year, Akshay Kumar starrer comedy-drama 'Housefull 4' looks all set to post an excellent collection as the film completes a week at the box office. The Farhad Samji directorial which features an ensemble star cast saw mass centers and single screens being flooded by people. The film has continued its strong run at the box office after coming off an exceptional holiday period.

        
          Housefull 4 Movie Review : Not so full of comedy
        
      
As per the latest report on the Boxofficeindia.com, on Thursday, the film has managed to rake in an estimated Rs 13 crore on its seventh day at the box office. The film came off the holiday period in some regions but has maintained collections supremely well. The drop is just 15% from Wednesday. The first-week total of the film will stand at a massive Rs 137 crore.
The film has been able to post such a huge figure despite only collecting Rs 50 crore in its first weekend. The weekdays post-Diwali holiday saw record-breaking collections despite the negativity in the trade market and unfavourable critical reviews. The film is still collecting exceptionally well at the Gujarat/Saurashtra circuit, beating figures of all outright Hindi films.

        Read Also:
        'Housefull 4' box office collection Day 6: The Akshay Kumar starrer film becomes the highest-grossing in the franchise
      
As the film is coming off holiday period in many regions, the eighth day will practically witness a drop. Also, new releases this Friday will result in a drop in the number of screens. However, it is to be seen how the eighth day will fare for the film at the box office since it has exceeded expectations during the weekdays.
Directed by Farhad Samji, ‘Housefull 4’ boasts of an ensemble star cast that includes, Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol, Pooja Hegde in the lead roles. The film is the fourth installment of the hit comedy franchise. The film hits the screens on October 25 and clashed at the box office with Rajkummar Rao's 'Made In China' and Taapsee Pannu-Bhumi Pednekar's 'Saand Ki Aankh'.
