
# Acura Gooses Performance Emphasis In Aiming At Ambitious Sales Pinnacle

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dale Buss**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dalebuss/2019/10/31/acura-gooses-performance-emphasis-in-aiming-at-ambitious-sales-pinnacle/)

Acura has set an ambitious goal for a luxury brand in a crowded field that is in the midst of a leveling off in the global auto market: Sell more than 200,000 vehicles a year in the United States after reaching sales of about 159,000 units last year.Acura chief Jon Ikeda is counting on an increasingly performance-oriented fleet as well as relevant marketing to “find us more than 200,000 friends” a year within the next few years among American auto buyers.
“We’re really trying our best to focus on the things we are good at, which are performance” attributes, Ikeda told me. “We want people to feel it in our advertising and through our marketing, but more than anything else, we want them to please get in our cars and drive them.”
Acura was one of the original Japanese premium brands and actually reached more than 200,000 sales a year in 2005 and 2006. But sales fell as low as 106,000 in 2009 in the middle of the Great Recession. Last year’s sales were a high since then, and so far in 2019 Acura sales have ticked up from the 2018 level.
But to achieve 200,000 sales a year and thereby bolster its position as the No. 5 premium automotive brand in the United States would require an effort similar to that mounted by Audi when the Volkswagen-owned luxury brand surged past the 200,000-a-year level several years ago and began sniffing the rarefied air in the segment previously breathed only by leaders Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Lexus.
“A lot of great cars and OEMs are doing what they need to be doing, and this is an aspirational goal for us,” Ikeda conceded. “When things are as competitive as they are, we need to be very clear to our premium clients that this is who you’re associating yourself with [in Acura] and we’ve got to get our message out about performance.”
Ikeda pointed to Acura’s performance heritage including some early vehicles such as Integra and Legend from the 1980s and 1990s. “You want to ground yourself honestly in what you’re good at and what your focus is on,” he said.
More recently, Acura has been spiffing up its performance credentials by, for instance, bringing back its A-Spec sport styling package to offer LED fog lights, black chrome accents and other performance touches on the TLX sedan; previewing a Type-S concept car that will lend refinements such as a turbocharged V-6 engine to production Acuras beginning next year, returning one of the brand’s old performance monikers from a decade ago; and introduced the NSX Supercar at a price tag of more than $157,000. It also has a motor-sports initiative.
“These are all tactics to authenticate that we’re a performance brand so that it is simple to understand where we come from and where we are focusing ourselves for the future,” Ikeda said.
Ikeda said Acura is re-emphasizing the use of color in design, music in marketing, and a youthful verve that can be reminiscent of the excitement around Acura when he was a young designer with the Honda-owned brand in Japan 30 years ago. “There was a lot of great, youthful energy that created the original vehicles, so we’re reviving that,” he said.
Helping the effort along is a new marketing campaign for the brand under the slogan “Less Talk, More Drive.” It kicked off with a TV commercial depicting a high-speed thrill ride through the eyes of Acura engineers and race-car drivers. It’s meant to complement the Precision Crafted Performance rubric that Acura has used in marketing for several years now.
Will all of this help produce what would amount to a 20-percent increase in annual U.S. volumes for Acura in such a tough environment?
Ikeda points to the example of Acura’s RDX SUV, which was redesigned for the 2019 model year incorporating the brand’s new styling philosophy and increased sales last year by 24 percent over its predecessor model. Along with TLX and the ILX sedan, and the MDX crossover, RDX is a core Acura model.
“RDX is in a tough segment, and there are a lot of modes out there, but we’re trying to showcase three things in that vehicle: trims; performance; and being young at heart. And it’s resonating extremely well for us.”
