
# Sordo Madaleno Architects Designs New Hotel for Mexico's Sea of Cortez

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ArchDaily](https://www.archdaily.com/927969/sordo-madaleno-architects-designs-new-project-for-mexicos-sea-of-cortez?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ArchDaily+%28ArchDaily%29&hl=en)

The large biological reserves located in La Paz, Baja California Sur in northern Mexico have made this destination one of the most significant for ecotourism and its proximity to the United States has accelerated its development in recent years.
Chablé is a growing group of ultra-luxury spas and resorts that has won multiple awards in recent years for a formula focused on leveraging its context to achieve a specific experience of each place. With this in mind, they contacted the Mexican office Sordo Madaleno Arquitectos to design a headquarters in the Sea of Cortez. The project entitled, Chablé Sea of Cortez is located on land that consists of an undeveloped beach located between two hills that overlook the ocean with elevated views and direct access to a main road south of La Paz. This covers a total of 64,912 square meters.
The masterplan's solution was based on placing half of the units in the rooms on each hill to have uninterrupted views of the ocean; the lobby and beach services are located in the valley a short distance from the coast; operational services near the main road; and the spa right in the middle of the beach and the main road, oriented inland. Of the 50 units required, the rooms are divided into standard with 120 m2, double villas of 409 m2 and the Villa Real of 500 m2. In addition, an important spa is included, as well as other amenities: restaurants, event space and boutique. This program, together with the administrative services, Wellness Villas and branded residences, total a total of 15,767 m2.

        Description sent by the design team.
      
A series of configuration studies helped determine that the architectural solution should be based on a branching system. Each branch is translated as a route to access the rooms, which runs parallel to the slope of the hill. The housing units move at an angle of 23 degrees of opening. The angles between each branch were designed to be open enough for any room to maintain an uninterrupted visual connection with the Sea of Cortez.
In spite of providing direct views towards the ocean, peripheral views of other rooms are still presented, which breaks the feeling of privacy and isolation within the nature of the place - a condition that was sought for this project. To create the sensation of zero interruptions within the landscape, a smooth, wavy surface was designed that integrates each room into a single formal organic gesture, which gradually separates and reconnects with the landscape.
Architectural Project: Sordo Madaleno ArquitectosPresident: Javier Sordo Madaleno BringasArchitecture Directors: Javier Sordo Madaleno de Haro, Fernando Sordo Madaleno de HaroProject leaders: Boris Pena, Adrián Aguilar HernándezProgram: HotelConstruction area: 16,000 m2Land area: 64,912 m2Design Date: 2018Status: In designLocation: La Paz, Baja California Sur, MexicoArchitecture Team / Project Manager: Jaime Sol, Alonso Hernández DíazDesign Team: Eduardo Francisco Longino, Ninfa Itzel Colin, Irene Serrato, Juan Antonio RuizEngineering Coordination: Héctor RuizMedia and Marketing: Rosalba Rojas, Daniela Cruz, Jimena Orvañanos, Vanessa GutiérrezInterior Design: Paulina MoránInterior Director: Paulina MoránInterior Manager: Carolina AlcocerStructural Engineering: ALBA Structural ProjectFacade Engineering: GRALTEA / C Engineering: GRALTEEngineering Systems and Special Installations: GRALTEHydrosanitary Engineering: GRALTELighting Consultant: GRALTEAudio and Video Consultant: GRALTESecurity Consultant: GRALTERenders: CG Verón, SMAAwards: Finalist in the “Future Project: Leisure Led Development” category of the WAF 2019 awards, Silver medal in the “Future Projects: Commercial” category of the WAN Awards 2019

        Para más información visita la página oficial Sordo Madaleno Arquitectos.
      
