
# Kate Beckinsale divorce from Len Wiseman finalised four years after split

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:56:16+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kate-beckinsale-divorce-len-wiseman-20812843)

Kate Beckinsale has officially divorced Len Wiseman, four years after they originally split.
The 46-year-old British actress had separated from film director Wiseman in 2015 before he filed for divorce a year later, citing "irreconcilable differences".
On Monday, TMZ reported that Beckinsale's marriage to Wiseman was finally officially over, after a judge signed off on the property settlement.
It has been reported that as part of the settlement, Beckinsale would be keeping all earnings she had made since they separated.
Beckinsale would also be keeping jewellery and personal items and The Blast has reported that she has deeded a property in the Hollywood Hills to Wiseman in recent weeks.
It has been a long process as Wiseman originally filed for divorce on October 25, 2016.
The couple met on the set of Underworld in 2003 and they married a year later. The film was starring Beckinsale's then partner Michael Sheen, who she had been with since 1995.
Becksinsale and Wiseman split in 2015 as their feelings for each other 'fizzled out'.
The actress has a 20-year-old daughter, Lily, from her relationship with Sheen, who Becksinale had persuaded Wiseman to cast him in Underworld before she dumped Sheen for the filmmaker.
Since splitting from Wiseman, Beckinsale raised eyebrows when she embarked on a relationship with SNL comedian, Pete Davidson.
The comic had just ended his engagement to singer Ariana Grande when he was spotted stepping out with Beckinsale, who was 20 years his senior.
After four months, their relationship was over and Beckinsale has shown she has a penchant for comedians, dating British star Jack Whitehall and US comic Matt Rife, in recent years.
Away from the dating scene, Beckinsale has revealed that she was rescued from her Los Angeles home after wildfires blazed through Northern California.
She took to social media to share her gratitude last week and thanked the Los Angeles Fire Department and her neighbours who assisted her and her two Persian cats named Clive and Willow and two lapdogs Ingrid and Myf in evacuating her Hollywood property.
Telling her Instagram followers what happened, alongside a snap of the terrifying flames, the British actress penned: "We are safe. Thank you so much to everyone who checked in.
"Sending love and hope to everyone else who walked out of their house at 3 am to this, love and admiration to the @losangelesfiredepartment and most of all to David and Dorothy who didn’t need to remember in the middle of the night that I can’t drive but did.
"And to everyone who has offered me a place to stay despite my rolling with four animals including an epileptic cat. Angel people. So grateful x"

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
