
# Mallika Sherawat serves the perfect Monday motivation in this stunning bikini picture

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:23:55+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/mallika-sherawat-serves-the-perfect-monday-motivation-in-this-stunning-bikini-picture/articleshow/71886352.cms)

Mallika Sherawat is here to help you beat the Monday morning blues with a stunning picture by the beach. The actress may not be entertaining on the big screen but she whips up a storm on social media, case in point being her latest sun-kissed click. Soaking in the ‘radiant sun’, a bikini clad Mallika Sherawat was snapped flaunting her envious figure. With this picture, Mallika is also inspiring fans to be fit and promoting a vegan diet, which she has been following religiously since years.
From inspiring fans with her fitness to doling out fashion tips, the hottie sure knows her way with the internet. Mallika’s Instagram page is a mix of fitness videos, throwback clicks, lazy vacays and stylish couture.
A few years back Mallika Sherawat was linked to French tycoon Cyrille Auxenfans. Buzz suggested that they had tied the knot in a secret ceremony, however the actress had cleared the air on social media and stated, “STOP spreading rumours. It's NOT true! The day I get married, you all will be invited :)". The actress was recently seen in a web series and is yet to announce her next Bollywood film.

        Facebook
        Twitter
        Pintrest
      
