
# Arsenal urged to snub Jose Mourinho for Chris Wilder if they sack Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:46:44+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-urged-snub-jose-mourinho-20806907)

Arsenal have been advised to appoint Sheffield United boss Chris Wilder if they sack Unai Emery.
Emery faces a make-or-break month at the Emirates Stadium after a disappointing start to the Premier League campaign.
Saturday’s 1-1 draw with Wolves leaves Arsenal six points off a top-four spot.
Gunners bigwigs could take drastic action by Christmas if they are in danger of missing out on Champions League qualification.
Jose Mourinho has been linked as a potential replacement and the club were forced to deny their Head of Football Raul Sanllehi has met with the former Manchester United and Chelsea boss.
But ex-Blues ace Tony Cascarino believes they should be focusing their attention on Wilder, whose Blades are one place and one point behind Arsenal in the table.
"Man United job, Arsenal job - Chris Wilder? Absolutely," Cascarino told talkSPORT.
"There would be a snobbery around football that would go for Allegri or Mourinho. But I'm like, 'No, I'd rather go with Chris Wilder.'
"He knows football, he's a proper football person. Like Sir Alex Ferguson, Jurgen Klopp at Mainz, Pep Guardiola at Barcelona B - he's shown what he can do.
"I believe there are managers in lower league football who are very gifted and deserve an opportunity. Chris has gone through the whole lot."
A number of Arsenal fans have turned on Emery, who is in the final season of his two-year contract.
When asked if he feels his position is under threat, Emery said: “I am very demanding of myself. I feel every time my responsibility to work and to come back from the result with the next matches.
He added: “We are speaking about how we can improve and take the good way, and also being calm in the dressing room with the players to achieve performances individually and collectively. These are the conversations at this time.”
