
# Yamaha scraps all car development plans

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Writer**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/yamaha-scraps-all-car-development-plans-414650)

The brand has decided to shelve all projects to produce cars in collaboration with Gordon Murray Design.
Yamaha has confirmed it has suspended all car projects indefinitely, having concluded that it would struggle to deliver a unique selling point for any of the vehicles it developed in collaboration with Gordon Murray Design.
The firm showed two car concepts at Tokyo motor shows in 2013 and 2015, the Motiv and the Sports Ride Concept respectively, both based around Murray's iStream manufacturing system.
The latter stood out in particular for using carbon fibre in its construction, promising huge rigidity and an impressive power-to-weight ratio for the car. Although exact details were not revealed, it was rumoured to have weighed under 900kg.
Although McLaren F1 designer Murray had said the iStream system could be employed profitably for production volumes of between 1,000 and 3,50,000 cars, Yamaha spokesman Naoto Horie confirmed at the 2019 Tokyo motor show that the projects would not proceed. The firm prefers to focus on smaller, more bike-like mobility concepts if it decided to stray from its core motorcycle projects.
"Cars do not feature in our long-term plans anymore," said Horie. "That is a decision taken by President Hidaka for the foreseeable future, as we could not see a way to develop either car to make it stand out from the competition, which is very strong. The sportscar, in particular, had great appeal for us, as enthusiasts; but the marketplace is particularly difficult. We now see other opportunities."

        Also see:
      

        
          Tokyo Motor Show 2019 image gallery
        
      

        
          Gordon Murray’s McLaren F1 successor to be revealed in 2022
        
      
