
# Hope Sourav Ganguly can help NCA scale new heights, says Harsha Bhogle

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:18:31+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/hope-sourav-ganguly-can-help-nca-scale-new-heights-says-harsha-bhogle?utm_medium=rss)


        Famous commentator Harsha Bhogle has made a few wishes for the betterment of Indian Cricket and he hopes that newly-appointed BCCI President Sourav Ganguly will prioritize the development of NCA over everything. Ganguly will hold the position for ten months and will be hoping to create an impact.
      
Harsha Bhogle is extremely happy that someone who has been a great servant of Indian cricket has been appointed as the BCCI President. Having known Indian Cricket inside-out, Sourav Ganguly being the BCCI President is one of the best things that have happened to Indian Cricket, according to Bhogle.
"There is a cyclone that is hitting Indian Cricket at the moment and that cyclone is called Sourav Ganguly," Bhogle told in his video for CricBuzz.
"Look at how many things have happened. He has met Virat Kohli. He has said that India will play D/N test. He has also said that there will be contracts for domestic cricketers. He has gone and met Rahul Dravid. Its almost as if there are 36 hours of the day in Sourav Ganguly's life, " Bhogle added.
The first thing on Bhogle's wish-list is reinstating NCA as the center of excellence in India. Former Indian greats like Rahul Dravid have lauded the NCA for having world-class facilities to help a player come back in form or return from an injury. Ganguly has already started talks with Dravid who, now, is the head coach at the NCA to make it the world-class training centre it once was.
"There has been a talk in recent times that the NCA has become a relaxing place for first-class and Test players and that's not what the NCA was meant to be. So I hope you make NCA of that level that people come in as one level of cricketer and leave at a higher level," Bhogle said.
Another point that Bhogle spoke about was from the marketing side of cricket, stating that large number of crowds need to be pulled in for matches and that there must be special efforts taken for it as they are taken in countries like England and Australia. Bhogle is sure that people will come in huge numbers in the stadium if viewing matches is made a pleasant experience.
"Watching a Test match, T20 or ODI from the ground has to be a pleasant exercise. In places like England and Australia, there is a great effort made to make spectators coming at the ground feel happy. Maybe for the bilateral series, we must talk to the state cricket associations to make watching games a pleasant experience, " Bhogle asserted.
