
# Kirsty Gallacher blames divorce for drink driving after she was handed two-year ban

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:34:40+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kirsty-gallacher-blames-divorce-drink-20799674)

Kirsty Gallacher has blamed her painful divorce for her drink driving arrest and subsequent two-year ban.
The TV presenter, 43, split from former rugby star Paul Sampson in 2014, and in 2017 she was convicted after being found three times over the limit.
She now admits she was "in a very bad place" at the time as she struggled to deal with the breakup and how it affected her children.
Kirsty told The Mail on Sunday’s You magazine: "I was in a very bad place with the divorce and issues to do with the children’s schedule. I was exhausted…
"I wasn't thinking straight. It was very bad and very un-Kirsty because I've always been a good girl.
"We all make mistakes, life's not perfect. And in the limelight you're apparently not able to put a foot wrong."
She was also struggling to cope her father Bernard's near-death experience, with the former golfer being brought back to life three times after suffering a cardiac arrest.
Kirsty continued: "It was traumatic. Divorce is horrible. It floored me like it floors everyone…
"I was just so anxious about the kids – my pain was connected with their pain, and I didn't look after myself."
Kirsty was arrested after she was spotted 'driving erratically'.
Police conducted a roadside breathalyser test which showed her alcohol level was at 106 microgrammes in 100 millilitres of breath.
The drink-drive limit in England and Wales is 35 microgrammes per 100 millilitres of breath.
She pleaded guilty at Slough Magistrates' Court to one count of driving a motor vehicle while her alcohol level was above the legal limit.
Kirsty was banned from driving for two years, ordered to carry out 100 hours of community service and told to pay a £85 fine.
