
# There is a gaping hole in the Sumahalli flyover

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/there-is-a-gaping-hole-in-the-sumahalli-flyover/articleshow/71871146.cms)

Traffic is not being allowed on the flyover that is a crucial link on the Outer Ring Road On Friday evening a local policeman noticed cracks developed on Sumanahalli flyover. He quickly put up barricades on the road that is crucial to cross the busy Magadi road on Outer Ring Road. By Saturday morning the concrete from where the cracks had developed had started crumbling down. This created panic and the flyover that was built in 2010 had officially become off-limits for use by heavy vehicles. Poor construction material and the recent rainfall is being blamed for the mess. This is said to be the first such crack in a city’s flyover in the recent times. Sumanahalli flyover is a crucial link on the Outer Ring Road that connects Nagarbavi and Laggere sections. This flyover bypasses the traffic on the busy Magadi Road. With the flyover cracking, the traffic on the flyover has been stopped and the vehicles are now being made to pass below the flyover, which has resulted in big jams on the entire stretch. BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar and his team inspected the spot and said poor construction was to blame. The flyover was built by a Chennai-based company for BDA but the upkeep and maintenance has been lax. The flyover has been transferred to BBMP in 2016 which is now entrusted with the repair work. Commuters fear that this flyover needs to be completely audited before traffic is allowed. Kumar said that the poor quality of concrete used in the flyover construction caused a 6*4 foot portion to cave in. He said he has given a 10-day deadline to his officials to repair the flyover. “When the ring road was thrown open to traffic, vehicles coming from Laggere bridge had to take a right turn and then a left turn (near Srigandhada Kaval) to reach Nayandahalli (via detour of Kengeri). Later, to cut the distance, the BDA constructed a new road that connected Nayandahalli via Nagarabhavi. This six-lane flyover was constructed so that the vehicles could swiftly move on the flyover without intersecting with the Magadi road traffic. However, with flyover being closed now, it will be a big traffic mess on the ORR,” said Raghuveer S, a daily commuter. Another commuter Prasanna Kumar said, “Travelling on the ORR stretch near Sumanahalli has been a tough task for more than a year now. The BBMP that is white topping the road has closed a portion of the road. Just as we were hoping for better days with white topping work being finished at major junctions, the flyover blockade has cropped up.” Another commuter said the government must conduct an audit of all the flyovers in the city.
