
# Callum McGregor discloses Celtic deal texts from Brendan Rodgers as former gaffer responds to bumper deal

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Craig Swan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/craig-swan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/callum-mcgregor-reveals-celtic-deal-20828361)

Callum McGregor smiled when he picked up his phone and saw a text message from Brendan Rodgers congratulating him on his new Celtic deal.
It was the type of relaxed outlook which he adopted when there was talk in the summer about the Leicester manager lifting his own phone to see if there was any prospect of taking his old charge to the English Premier League.
Celtic made it clear from the outset there was no chance of McGregor leaving.
And, if there was any sense that the midfielder might lob his toys out of the pram at that decision, it was a badly misplaced notion.
McGregor saw it just one way. That Celtic’s stance outlined just how much they valued him.
The club have vindicated their approach with their bumper new five-year contract and it’s little wonder given they have placed their trust in a star-man who is as bright between the ears as he is on the football pitch.
McGregor’s professionalism is second to none. He rarely misses a game. He’s regularly a key performer. And his ability to cope with difficult situations on the field was replicated off it as he surveyed his future through summer speculation.
He explained: “It wasn’t really on my mind. Since the season started I have been playing every three days and just been focusing on my job.
“It’s nice to get that interest. I had a good relationship with the previous manager. He goes away and there’s that link that he wants you.
“It’s nice as it shows you were doing something right for the time he was here. You take it as a compliment, but as soon as it passed, I have been totally focused on football and let everything else take care of itself. I wasn’t really that up or down. It was about getting fit and taking it from there.
“You obviously see Kieran [Tierney] doing so well down at Arsenal. He’s made that step and naturally you will look at it and think: I do fancy a bit of that at some point.
 
“I would never have done that [toys out of the pram]. This club has given me so much and I am so thankful to them for the opportunity to play football at such a massive club.
“It was never in my mind to get upset or anything. I have a job to do and we have had so much success.
“I am really enjoying my football and all you want to do is get on the pitch and do you best for the club, the fans and yourself. Again, you take it as a compliment that you are doing your job well, but ultimately the decision was made to renew my contract here.
“I have had a few conversations with the manager [Neil Lennon] and he has been absolutely first class. I am delighted to get it done and create that stability.
“He [Rodgers] texted me just to say: Congratulations, you really deserve it. He said he was happy for me. I just sent him a text back saying: Thanks very much for everything you have done for me as well.”
As McGregor stood inside the corridors of Lazio’s Olympic Stadium, it was another reminder of what he has at Celtic.
Massive games in massive arenas are stock-trade for Hoops stars and the playmaker, who will make a 58th Euro appearance for the club after making his full debut in Reykjavik five years ago, continued: “It is easy to forget about how big a club you are playing at.
“People are quick to judge Scottish football. But to come to a stadium like this is amazing. It has a capacity of over 70,000 and there aren’t many teams in the world who come and play in venues like this.
“When you sit here you realise how lucky you are to play for a club like this. You realise you have done something right and are in a good place.
“In the last few seasons, we have obviously done really well domestically.
I think now it is about us trying to cut our teeth in Europe and trying to make a real statement in there as well.
“The way we have started in the group has been great, so if we get a positive result it gives us a real chance of going and progressing.
 
"That is something we have spoken about internally with the players, the manager and everybody else.”
Beside him in the engine room tonight will be skipper Scott Brown. In the future, it’s McGregor who will be wearing the armband and leading the way.
Lennon’s already said so, but McGregor laughed: “I am trying to learn as much as I can from him so eventually, if he ever does stop playing, I can do it.
“But you know what he’s like. Peter Pan! He seems to be getting better every week. He is outscoring me and he has 10 years on me.
“Seriously, to be playing in there alongside Broony has been a massive learning curve for me in terms of everything else, preparation, trying to help the team as well as focusing on your own game.
“I don’t think there’s many better to learn off. Whenever he isn’t playing I try to step in and do that job. At this point in my career you start to watch him and watch what he does.”
