
# Will ‘Housefull 4’ beat ‘Mission Mangal’ to become Akshay Kumar’s highest grossing film?

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:36:21+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/will-housefull-4-beat-mission-mangal-to-become-akshay-kumars-highest-grossing-film/articleshow/71890134.cms)

Akshay Kumar starrer ‘Housefull 4’ is enjoying a lot of attention at the box office as the film manages to rake in big numbers even in its second week. The multi-starrer hit the screens on the festive occasion of Diwali and registered a strong second weekend with around Rs 31 crore nett. According to a report on Boxofficeindia.com, ‘Housefull 4’ crossing Rs 30 crore nett mark over the weekend is big, as maybe there are around 15 films in history which have achieved this feat.
Moreover the film has collected a total of Rs 168 crore nett in ten days, which is much more compared to Akshay’s last release ‘Mission Mangal’, which made Rs 155 crore nett after eleven days. The report stated that there is a good chance that ‘Housefull 4’ can beat the lifetime collection of the space drama, which is Rs 192 crore. If this happens then ‘Housefull 4’ will be crowned as Akshay Kumar’s highest grossing film till date.
Interestingly, if ‘Housefull 4’ manages to surpass the nett collection of ‘Golmaal Again’ i.e. Rs 205 crore, it will emerge as the highest grossing comedy too. However this feat will depend wholly on the business of the third and fourth weekend of ‘Housefull 4’ at the box office.
Directed by Farhad Samji, ‘Housefull 4’ features an ensemble cast of Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon, Riteish Deshmukh, Kriti Kharbanda, Bobby Deol and Pooja Hegde.
