
# We cannot be losing games like this, admits Antonio Conte

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:01:40+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/we-cannot-be-losing-games-like-this-admits-antonio-conte?utm_medium=rss)


        Inter Milan coach Antonio Conte has criticised his team’s performance in the Champions League after the Nerazzurri surrendered a two-goal lead and lost to Borussia Dortmund. The former Juventus coach went on to say that these defeats are difficult to swallow and one that should have never happened.
      
Serie A giants travelled to Germany to face Borussia Dortmund in the UEFA Champions League and a win would lead Antonio Conte’s men into a favourable position in the group. The Milan giants started the game well, scoring 2 goals via Lautaro Martinez and Matias Vecino. However, the second half didn’t go according to the plan and Inter conceded three goals which saw them drop a two-goal advantage and lose the game. Julian Brandt and Achraf Hakimi’s brace proved to be a little too much for the Italians to take and the former Italy coach didn’t take the defeat well.
In his post-match interview, Conte went on to admit that his side did not play well and even went on to criticize the board and the work they did during the summer window. The club signed eight players over the summer including bringing in Conte's top target in Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez alongside Stefano Sensi and Nicola Barella.
“‘It was the same thing that happened in Barcelona. In fact, this was worse, as we had a two-goal advantage. It’s disappointing, but what can I say? They tell me that I should smile more on television. I should always say the same things, the growth process, taking it step by step, so just ask me some questions and I’ll try to answer. I don’t feel like even commenting on the second half, as there are too many alibis and I don’t want to create any more,” said Conte reports the Metro.
"I just hope this type of match clarifies things for those who need to understand. It irritates me and I hope that this defeat irritates my players too. We can do no more than to work and that’s what we’re doing. I am just fed up of saying the same things over and over, I hope a director comes here and says things instead."
The defeat has left Inter 3rd in the group with 4 points after 4 games above Slavia Praha who have 2 points. Dortmund jumped to 7 points and have a better chance of qualification for the Round of 16 than Conte’s Inter. Elsewhere in the group, Barcelona struggled at home against Slavia with the clash between the two ended in a stalemate but the Prague club had the better chances of the game. Barcelona sit at the top with 8 points and face Dortmund next while Inter will welcome the Czech club to San Siro. Conte also added that reinforcements need to arrive in January if the team is to realistically challenge on all fronts.
“I don’t care about January or February. We should’ve planned this season out much, much better. We proved that we can trouble anyone if we are on form, but there are players who have played non-stop. I am fed up of saying it. You can take your conclusions from a second-half like that. ‘It’s not about the club, it’s that we have to work together and big mistakes were made.
"We cannot play in Serie A and the Champions League constantly pushed to the limits. I also have to talk to the players, because we went from 4-1 up to 4-3 with Sassuolo too, so it’s not just that, but the players do have alibis and there’s no point denying our current condition. I am really pissed off, because we cannot do more than this. We’ve reached the limit,” concluded the former Chelsea coach. 
