
# What Happens When A House Costs More Than $150 Million: Adventures In Los Angeles Real Estate

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Guy Martin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/guymartin/2019/10/31/what-happens-when-a-house-costs-more-than-150-million--adventures-in-los-angeles-real-estate/)

It's not always clear why certain pieces of real estate sell and some don't. But in Los Angeles over the last two years, it's been interesting that a few obvious very-high-end jewels have not found a market. And they have done that in two very different ways. The two most obvious are: Jerrold Perenchio's 1912 mansion, Chartwell, on its one-time-only 10-acre parcel in Bel Air, and developer Bruce Makowsky's own over-the-top spec-house in Malibu, with all the tricks of the trade, including an 80-foot infinity pool, a collection of 40 cars, and a wall of giant candy dispensers folded in.
While it's clear that Chartwell and the Makowsky house are in two completely different markets, namely, trendier and more fresh-movie-star Malibu versus the far more staid, old-guard Bel Air, both these houses are alike in that their prices are stratosperic, at $195 million for Chartwell, and $150 million for Makowsky.
The narrative of these houses are markedly different. Makowsky's super-flashy Malibu resort-like behemoth burst onto the Los Angeles market in 2017 as "the most expensive house in America," at $250 million. In 2018 Makowsky was asking $188 million. In 2o19, that number was pushed down to a flat $150 million, or a full $100 million less than 36 months ago. The gradient has been steep.
Perenchio's Chartwell has been on the market less long, which is to say, it's at the beginning of its journey, but price-wise, at $195 million as of two months ago, it now tops Makowsky's play on the other side of town. A prospective buyer would, also, get a pool with Perenchio's house, and a series of outbuildings, and extraordinary gardens to which the former studio executive and Univision CEO was devoted. he put together the parcel by slowly buying up the neighbors' properties as they came up for sale over the years. Chartwell was a labor of love for Perenchio, and it shows.
