
# Saying Goodbye To ‘The Affair’: It Was A Show About Growth And Forgiveness

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dana Feldman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danafeldman/2019/11/04/saying-goodbye-to-the-affair-it-was-a-show-about-growth-and-forgiveness/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Saying goodbye is never easy, especially with a show this profound. It wasn’t just about an affair. No, it was about so much more. The Affair detailed the ripple effects of what our actions do to one another and how our decisions affect the multitude of those around us, even crossing generations. But at the end and its core, this was a show about the unbreakable love between soulmates and how it’s possible to both deeply hurt those we love, often in cruel ways, and also forgive one another for our messy humanness. Sarah Treem (House of Cards, In Treatment) and Hagai Levi (In Treatment, Our Boys) created the hit drama, which ran on Showtime for five seasons from 2014 until last night’s series finale. Over the course of its 53-episode run, the ingenious show grew its fanbase with an average of four million tuning in to watch the Solloways and Lockharts navigate tragic loss, gut-wrenching heartbreak and, of course, the illicit affair at the center of it all.
“What happens if you’re in a marriage, a good one, and yet you meet someone outside of that marriage that you think is your soulmate?” This, said Treem in a phone interview, was the question she pondered nearly a decade ago when first pitching The Affair with Levi. She was just 31 at the time and would go on to executive produce the show. As for the incredible series finale, which beautifully brought it all together full-circle, Treem wrote and directed the 90-minute episode.
How does Treem have such a deep understanding of what affairs can do to marriages and lives? When asked if her life has been touched by an affair, Treem was elusive, saying she preferred not to answer the question. She did, however, offer a tidbit into her history. “What I will say is I’ve had an experience with something like this.”
Treem explained her state of mind at the time she first pitched The Affair. “I was in this period where I was very sad, very depressed. Yet, to someone else I came across as being very open, free and exciting. There was almost something desperate about it. We just project so much on one another. It’s rare to see someone as themselves. We put so much on other people and it causes us to make so many mistakes and it causes so much heartache that comes from that kind of feeling of being so sad. And yet, someone interpreted me as happy and free at that time and it blew my mind.”
This reminds me of a beautiful, fractured Alison Bailey, played by Ruth Wilson. She was the woman that drew Noah (Dominic West) away from Helen (Maura Tierney) and their four children. Her husband Cole (Joshua Jackson) would fight for her but as we know, never quite got her back. She had a lure that drew men in and would eventually be her undoing. These were the original four main characters, each actor exquisite in their roles. The show would branch out, adding in more multi-dimensional characters and building out into an impeccable ensemble cast.
The series would get awards attention with 20 nominations over the years. In 2015, the show won a Golden Globe for Best Drama, as well as a golden statuette for Wilson. And, Tierney would win the following year.
Originally, Treem told me, it was to be a three-season show. “The first season’s original arc was a narrative about this hot and heavy affair. In the second season, we’d double-down as the spark is fading and these two people would try not to lose it. The third season, which was to be the last, would center around this affair turning into a real marriage that would eventually hit the point of boredom but they’d stay together.”
At first, the show was to solely come from the differing perspectives of the two having the affair: Noah and Alison. As fans know, the show evolved over the seasons into showing scenes from many of the characters perspectives. At first, it would be the same scene shown twice from the two characters involved; a subtle nuance between Alison and Noah’s recollection of a single encounter, such as the length of a skirt, or who pursued who. This would evolve into scenes leading up to a moment in time when two characters would cross paths, to better explain for us why each felt or reacted a certain way.
Treem laughs when first asked why Plan A went off course. “Well, pretty early on in the storytelling we realized we had this incredibly talented ensemble cast on our hands! At the end of the first season I had started to feel like I wanted to know more about the other characters. And, I couldn’t show Helen or Cole unless it was through Noah or Alison’s eyes.”
So, Treem and her team decided to see what would happen if they added in the perspectives of the two being cheated on. As the collateral damage of this love affair of which the show was based, audiences also wanted to know more about these characters. “Once this happened, it all changed,” explains Treem. “We reached another point in the storytelling. It was a revelation for me and changed where we should go.”
Treem knew the story had another layer. “I realized the story was about soulmates and those were the original couples. It changed in my head at that point. This is when it started to really shift; if we are going to tell the story of soulmates we needed Helen and Cole’s perspectives.”
As for the evolving perspectives on the show over the seasons, Treem says it was basically she and the writers playing with form. “We had a specific storytelling engine we liked but the question for me as a writer with these narrative constraints was, what else can we do? How many ways can we peel this onion?”
It was an organic evolution in a show that would eventually branch out to also include the perspectives of other characters, including season five’s Anna Paquin, who plays Alison and Cole’s daughter Joanie 30-plus years in the future, as well as Sierra (Emily Browning) and Helen and Noah’s daughter Whitney (Julia Goldani Telles).
“We’re always in a perspective!” Treem says with a firmness to explain why many choices were made and why characters came across so differently: because we saw interactions through various people. “We always used the form in service of the story.”
The Affair had many layers but at its core, this was a show about love and humanity with all its cracks and messiness. “At the end, it was a show about forgiveness. Radical forgiveness is possible. That’s how I feel about it…the possibility of forgiveness. My feeling about the show is it’s not a show about crime, punishment or justice. Nobody pays for their crimes on this show!” Treem laughs. “They pay for other people’s crimes.”
She references Noah, who goes to prison and pays for Helen’s crime of accidentally killing Cole’s brother. “Helen gets away with murder. And, Alison certainly doesn’t deserve what happens to her. Ben doesn’t pay for killing Alison. This is not a story about heroes or justice. It’s about growth and forgiveness.”
So, why didn’t we get to see Ben pay for killing one of our favorite characters? Treem’s answer to this also explains why Alison’s murder wasn’t solved in this final season in the present day and was instead set decades in the future in an environmentally decimated Montauk (and planet). Of note, it was a wakeup call to see Treem and Levi’s vision of an Earth in the 2050s that’s been ravaged by the devastating effects of climate change. The future storyline also set up Treem’s final messages perfectly.
“For me, it’s so much about the inherent trauma, and the cycles of trauma, that can last two or three generations before those cycles are broken. Alison’s daughter bears the burden of her trauma and misunderstands what happened to her mother. She’s believed the false information of what she thinks happened,” Treem explains. “We don’t always give our characters what they want. We give them what they need. Joanie wants justice but she needs to forgive the man that murdered her mother and go home to fix her family. And, when Joanie was denied what she wanted, she spiraled.”
The talk in the finale between a now grown Joanie and an aged-progressed Noah is what sends her home to fix her broken family. “It felt like the right thing to set her free. There’s no real way to get over what happened and it doesn’t matter what happens to Ben. Nothing will bring Alison back,” says Treem.
Treem describes the relationships between these characters as a puzzle. “One story I really wanted to tell was where EJ (Michael Braun) came from.” Fans may have put the puzzle pieces together a few episodes back when EJ tells Joanie his father died just before he was born and spoke often of his affinity for movies (his mother and grandmother, if you recall, both were actresses).
In a conversation in the final episode, EJ tells Joanie his mother, Sierra, and Helen were very close friends and that Helen was like a second mother to him. Joanie is awestruck since Helen’s then love, Vic (Omar Metwally) cheated on her with Sierra, which resulted in EJ. Joanie receives a very clear message from the universe about forgiveness.
“Joanie had to have this conversation with EJ to then return to the Lobster Roll and have a talk with Noah. This led to her finding out the truth about her mother,” says Treem. All would be the catalyst for Joanie going home and healing herself and her family, an opportunity to make things right that Alison never had.
“We challenged our fans,” says Treem. “The characters didn’t get redemption or happy endings. Killers didn’t get justice. We had to treat the finale like an episode. There’s the trap of trying to answer all the questions about what happens to each character but you can’t do that.”
The finale, which came beautifully full-circle, does give a few clues: Noah leans on Helen’s tombstone reading a book their daughter Stacey wrote and the camera pans across neighboring headstones of Helen’s parents. We know without being spoon fed what has happened over the years.
Treem, who is currently working on an untitled project on Hedy Lamarr, didn’t leave us completely in despair as we said our final goodbyes. Noah, on a rocky peak in Montauk, dances as he recalls the flash-mob he orchestrated at Whitney’s wedding over 30 years prior and though sad, we reflect and through the tears, smile with him.
What Treem and Levi created was a show unlike anything else on television. They took huge risks. This show didn’t follow the usual tropes of linear storytelling, nor did it follow the rules when it came to how a story should unfold. Perspectives affect memories as does time, which distorts and fades our recollections of events. The result was brilliant and though there were bumps in the road, just like the human imperfections of the show’s characters, some seasons stand out as better against others. Overall, this one was not easy to say goodbye to.
