
# The Valley Run 2019 dates announced

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:49:00+00:00**

Author: **Unnatee Gidithuri**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/motor-sports-news/the-valley-run-2019-dates-announced-414726)

Seventh edition of the drag racing event will take place from December 13-15, 2019, at the Aamby Valley Air Strip.
Here's some welcome news for all the petrolheads out there: The Valley Run is back for its 2019 edition. The drag race event will return to the Aamby Valley Air Strip next month and will be held from December 13-15, 2019.
Over the years, The Valley Run has succeeded in establishing itself as one of India’s most anticipated drag racing events, and last year’s event witnessed over 450 entries spread across several car and bike categories. The event organiser, Elite Octane Inc, expects this year’s edition to be even bigger, with over 600 participants battling it out over the three adrenaline-filled days.
For those unfamiliar with the format, here's a gist. A drag race is a timed event, with the winning car or bike being the one that accelerates faster from a standstill and covers the quarter-mile-long straight in the shortest duration. Such a race doesn’t just make for a thrilling spectacle, but is also a true test of skill and reaction time.
And the event won’t be thrilling just for those participating. To make it a well-rounded spectacle for all those attending, a number of off-track activities have been planned on the Air Strip as well as in Aamby Valley City. Additionally, a Supercar Parade will be held on the second day (December 14, 2019), while a number of automotive-related brand displays will be present on all three days.
Registrations for The Valley Run 2019 will open on Tuesday, November 5, 2019. Watch this space for more updates on the event.
You can head HERE to watch all the action from last year’s event.
