
# Iron Maiden is coming to Dubai next year

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/422224-iron-maiden-is-coming-to-dubai-next-year)

Brace yourselves metal heads of Dubai, a legendary British heavy metal band are coming to rock your socks off next year. Prepare for some proper head-banging.Coca-Cola Arena revealed that Iron Maiden are set to perform their Legacy of the Beast world tour in May 27, 2020 and tickets to the massive show will go on sale next week on Thursday November 14.Tickets will be available on www.coca-cola-arena.com at 8am. Be ready to book fast.With thirty-nine albums, which includes 16 studio albums, 12 live albums, four EPs, and seven compilations, the East London rockers have been rocking out since 1975. Yes, they’re pretty well known alright.Expect them to perform some of their heaviest tunes, including The Trooper, Run To The Hills, 2 minutes to midnight and plenty more.They’ve recently travelled around the world on their brilliant Legacy of the Beast world tour. It's their biggest production and has been seen by nearly two million fans since the tour opened last year. We’re not surprised.They’ll also be performing in Belfast and Donnington Park in 2020.Ticket prices and times have yet to be announced, so watch timeoutdubai.com for further updates.In the meantime, check out the huge artists to headline at Dubai Jazz Fest 2020 right here.Run to the hills? No, run to Coca-Cola Arena.Due to perform May 27, 2020. Tickets on sale Thu Nov 14. Coca-Cola Arena, City Walk, www.coca-cola-arena.com.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
