
# Rugby World Cup prize money: How much England will pocket with 2019 Final victory

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/rugby-world-cup-prize-money-20787542)

England players are set to pocket £2.5million between them if they win the Rugby World Cup.
The Red Rose take on South Africa in Saturday morning's showpiece event, looking to avenge the 2007 loss at the same stage to the same opposition.
Rugby chiefs have handed England a mammoth financial incentive for victory, with the bonus payouts thought to be the largest ever on offer for a Test match.
It comes on top of the £1.2m payout that England players bagged for beating New Zealand in the semi-finals.
The prize money comes as part of a laddering system, with England earning more money for each knockout round that they progress.
A bonus payment of £768,150 was distributed between the squad for beating Australia in the quarter-finals.
That then went up to £1.2m for the New Zealand game - and now has more than doubled for victory in the final.
Nothing additional will be paid to England players if they fail to beat South Africa.
It means that every member of the England squad has already taken home £66,077 for their exploits in the knockout stages alone.
There was a payment of £13,656 per player for the group games.
If England are to go on to win the World Cup, it will mean that almost £7million will have been paid out to the England squad in total throughout the competition - approximately £225,000 per player.
From the World Cup itself, a fee of £325,000 is paid out to the winning nation.

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
