
# L.A. Suspends Uber's Permit To Rent Out Electric Scooters and Bikes

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:25:00+00:00**

Author: **msmash**

Original: [tech.slashdot.org](https://tech.slashdot.org/story/19/11/04/1825236/la-suspends-ubers-permit-to-rent-out-electric-scooters-and-bikes?utm_source=rss1.0mainlinkanon&utm_medium=feed)

Following months of conflict over a controversial data-sharing policy, Los Angeles has temporarily suspended Uber's permit to rent electric scooters and bicycles on city streets and sidewalks. From a report: The company's subsidiary, Jump, must appeal the decision by Friday or leave the city, the Transportation Department told the company in a letter last week. For now, customers can still rent the vivid red scooters and electric bikes through the Jump app. In response, Uber threatened in a letter to sue the city over the "patently unfair and improper" suspension. The letter also questioned the validity of the "eleventh-hour administrative review process" that the city created last month. "Every other company that is permitted in Los Angeles is following the rules," said Transportation Department spokeswoman Connie Llanos. "We look forward to being able to work with Uber on getting them into compliance." The suspension follows months of tension and failed attempts at compromise between Uber and the city over a data-sharing rule in L.A.'s one-year pilot permit program. Companies are required to transmit real-time data on all trips made within the city, including the start point, end point and travel time.
