
# How Good Can Darius Bazley Be For The Oklahoma City Thunder?

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nick Crain**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholascrain/2019/11/06/how-good-can-darius-bazley-be-for-the-oklahoma-city-thunder/)

As one of the best high school basketball players in the nation, current Oklahoma City Thunder forward Darius Bazley was a participant in events such as the McDonald’s All-American Game, Jordan Brand Classic, and Nike Hoop Summit. At the end of his senior year, he announced that he would forego his college eligibility and go straight to the NBA after a year of training.As one of the most uncertain first-round draft picks based on lack of film and experience, Oklahoma City selected Bazley with the No. 23 pick in the 2019 NBA Draft. Through seven games for the Oklahoma City Thunder this season, Bazley has appeared in all seven, producing 5.7 points and 4.1 rebounds in 18.1 minutes per contest. What is most impressive is his shooting splits, as he is currently is shooting 43.8 percent from 3-point range as well as 83.3 percent from the free throw line.
Among rookies this season, Bazley is 8th in 3-point percentage, 10th in rebounds per game, 12th in free throw percentage, and 14th in minutes played. For a young forward, that is exactly the type of player you want to develop. As a stretch power forward for now, Bazley has the potential to evolve into a long, athletic wing who can get it done on both ends of the floor.
According to Basketball Reference, Bazley has played 95 percent of his minutes at power forward and only five percent at small forward. As he continues to develop a handle for the ball and gets stronger, his minutes at those positions could be much different. His versatility will should him to play small forward in big lineups or power forward in small lineups in the future.
With the eighth most minutes per game on the Oklahoma City roster, Bazley wasn't given a transition period as a rookie to ease him into the NBA style of play after skipping college. However, in limited minutes, he has been extremely efficient, showing off his high basketball IQ and ability to pass the ball. In fact, there has been a couple of games in which he was the first player off of the bench, showing early trust from the coaching staff.
At just 19 years old, Bazley will continue to get the opportunity to play major minutes. With Danilo Gallinari being a likely trade asset prior to the 2020 NBA Trade Deadline, Bazley might find himself as a starter by the time the 2019-20 season wraps up. He is one of six current NBA rookies under the age of 20.
It is still early in Darius Bazley’s young career, but it appears he will be a major piece of the new-look Oklahoma City Thunder roster alongside Shai Gilgeous-Alexander for many years to come. For a guy who has less in-game experience than most other rookies due to not playing in college, Bazley has been one of the most impressive rookies in the NBA thus far.
