
# Prolonged pursuit spans 100 kilometres around Sask.; man arrested

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:54:19+00:00**

Author: **Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/crime/prolonged-pursuit-spans-100-kilometres-around-sask-man-arrested)

A 26-year-old man from Cote First Nation is accused of leading police on a chase that spanned more than 100 kilometres, included two failed spike belt attempts and finally ended with a foam projectile.
RCMP were first sent to a motor vehicle collision in Foam Lake late Saturday night after one driver fled the accident scene. Police later located the unoccupied vehicle and confirmed it was stolen from Canora.
An officer then found a man matching the suspect’s description near the abandoned vehicle. According to RCMP, the suspect refused to stop walking, as per the officer’s orders, and pulled a machete from his pants. The suspect allegedly pointed the machete at the officer then held the blade to his own throat, saying, “Leave me alone.” The suspect then fled on foot.
A short time later, the RCMP received a report that a truck was stolen by someone armed with a machete who had allegedly entered a residence through an unlocked door and was last seen on Highway 16 heading toward Yorkton.
Yorkton RCMP located the truck on the highway near Springside and tried to stop the vehicle. As police pursued it, one officer was nearly struck by the suspect as the fleeing truck swerved into the oncoming lane. Two spike belt attempts were foiled when the suspect drove into the ditch. The pursuit was discontinued for public safety as the suspect entered Yorkton city limits.
Officers again located the suspect at a gas station fuelling up a short time later. They attempted to block him at the pumps, but the vehicle fled with the fuel pump still attached to the vehicle. The suspect drove toward Melville on Highway 10 as RCMP followed from a distance.
Meanwhile, Fort Qu’Appelle RCMP set up a road block east of Balcarres.
Another spike belt was used and deflated the suspect vehicle’s tires. However, he continued toward Fort Qu’Appelle where the vehicle came to a stop after crashing into a stop sign.
The suspect ran to a nearby backyard where he was surrounded by police. He continued to hold the machete to his throat and two Taser deployments were unsuccessful.
An officer trained in crisis negotiation spoke with the suspect, but 70 minutes passed without a resolution.
Officers used an “extended range impact weapon that shoots a foam projectile to disable the suspect.” The man was arrested, assessed by EMS and taken into custody.
Neither police nor the suspect sustained any injuries.
The 26-year-old man is charged with possession of a weapon for dangerous purpose, fail to stop after accident, possession of property obtained by crime over $5,000, assault a peace officer with weapon, dangerous operation of a motor vehicle, mischief over $5,000, mischief under $5,000, flight from a peace officer, theft under $5,000 and use electronic device while driving.
