
# What happens to ISIS after leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi dies in US commando raid

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:41:46+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/what-happens-isis-after-leader-20765000)

The death of ISIS' leader has delivered a huge blow to the terror group, leaving it with no obvious successor amid fresh turmoil in the Middle East.
As Donald Trump celebrated the death of wanted terrorist Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the US president declared: "The world is now a much safer place."
While it was a massive victory for the US and its allies, the enemies of Islamic State cannot rest easy, according to experts, who say the jihadists are still a serious threat and appeared to be making a resurgence.
Experts have warned that ISIS - whose militants are scattered across its former strongholds in Syria and Iraq - is likely to launch "retribution" attacks after appointing a new leader.
However, one terrorism analyst says ISIS is frayed and could struggle to name a new chief and eventually splinter.
 
American and British forces aren't letting their guards down abroad or at home after al-Baghdadi died in a nighttime raid by US commandos on October 27.
The terrorist, who had a $25million (£19million) bounty on his head, was traced to a compound in the remote village of Barisha in north-western Syria, just miles from the border with Turkey.
He killed himself and two children aged under 12 when he detonated a suicide vest in a dead-end tunnel as members of the elite US Delta Force - aided by the SAS - closed in.
Afterwards, al-Baghdadi was buried at sea - just like Osama bin Laden was after he was killed in a raid in Pakistan in May 2011 - and offered Islamic funeral rites.
 
Trump claimed al-Baghdadi was a "coward" and was "whimpering and crying" before he killed himself, adding: "He died like a dog."
On Tuesday, Trump claimed al-Baghdadi’s "number one replacement" was killed by US troops, adding on Twitter : "Most likely would have taken the top spot - Now he is also Dead."
It was unclear who he was referring to.
It was speculated that Abdullah Qardash had been selected to take over following al-Baghdadi's death, but intelligence sources claim Qardash died in 2017, Al Jazeera reported.
Qardash is a former Iraqi military officer who was in a US-run jail, Camp Bucca, with al-Baghdadi before the rise of ISIS.
Following al-Baghdadi's death, a top US military chief warned that ISIS was likely to strike back.
The US estimates that there are still 18,000 ISIS fighters on the run in Syria and Iraq. The UN puts that number even higher, at up to 30,000.
Marine General Kenneth McKenzie, the commander of US Central Command, which oversees American forces in the, Middle East, told reporters: "We suspect they will try some form of retribution attack.
"And we are postured and prepared for that."
It was reported that British intelligence services had stepped up their monitoring of subjects of interest to safeguard against the possibility of revenge attacks in the UK.
The response covers about 3,000 people in the UK and abroad who are suspected of having connections to ISIS or who could be inspired to plot an attack in Britain, the Guardian reported.
Raffaello Pantucci, a director at the Royal United Services Institute thinktank, said: “The most immediate concern will be that major terrorism events often prompt actions by copycats or in revenge.”
As for ISIS' presence in the Middle East, any succession plan is likely only known to a very small number of senior members, wrote Paul Cruickshank, CNN's terrorism analyst.
The terrorists have not announced who will take over.
Al-Baghdadi became ISIS' leader in 2010 and oversaw a murderous campaign to establish a "caliphate" while seizing control of vast swathes of Syria and Iraq - territories that were lost to US-backed forces in operations that sent surviving militants scattering across the two countries.
The group still has allies or followers in places such as Afghanistan, Libya and Southeast Asia.
During his reign al-Baghdadi, from northern Iraq, rose from obscurity and was seen as a true "caliph" as ISIS carried out or inspired a number of deadly attacks against the West and bolstered its ranks with militants who had travelled from Europe.
But the next leader may have very little name recognition and may lack the ability to inspire global terror, Mr Cruickshank wrote.
He said there remains a possibility that ISIS could splinter due to tensions and militants' beliefs.
He wrote: "It is widely believed among jihadis that a 'caliph' must have certain attributes and credentials.
"One is the requirement to be descended from the Prophet Mohammed's Quraysh tribe.
"Another is the requirement to have significant knowledge of Islamic jurisprudence."
Such requirements would narrow the pool of potential successors.
The list of potential successors is likely to be short, Al Jazeera also reported.
Potential candidates include Tunisian national Abu Othman al-Tunsi, who heads ISIS' Shura Council, and Abu Saleh al-Juzrawi, a Saudi national who runs ISIS' so-called Delegated Committee, the report added.
Survivors of ISIS' reign of terror say al-Baghdadi's demise has brought little relief because the group remains a threat.
Yasmin Mashaan, a refugee in Germany who fled ISIS' stronghold of Deir al-Zour in eastern Syria, told the New York Times: “I don’t think that Daesh ends by killing this person who destroyed our revolution, killed my brother and displaced us.
“I am happy when every tyrant receives such a fate, whether it is Baghdadi who killed my brother, or (Syrian President) Bashar al-Assad, who killed my other four brothers.
Hussam Hammoud, 27, an activist from ISIS former de facto capital Raqqa, added: “We are happy that he was killed, but we do not think our misery will end because of that.”
Al-Baghdadi's death comes amid fresh conflict in Syria, where the US withdrew its troops and Turkey invaded northern territory to launch an assault against the Kurds.
Jihadists and their supporters escaped Kurdish prisons or camps, heightening fears that ISIS would regain strength in the region and wage new attacks.
