
# How drugs, speeding and a mobile phone left innocent pedestrians and drivers maimed or dead

Published at: **2019-11-02T05:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Balloo, https://www.facebook.com/MissBalloo/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/how-drugs-speeding-mobile-phone-17157471)

Innocent lives taken and dreams crushed - all because of the reckless drivers who chose to flout the laws of the road in the worst ways possible.
Speeding, drug driving and using a mobile phone at the wheel have all seen pedestrians and drivers tragically killed or maimed in horrific crashes on our streets.
Collisions including the notorious Belgrave Middleway tragedy - which left six dead as a 100mph driver lost control - should serve as a harrowing deterrent for reckless motorists.
But despite the deadly dangers and consequences, drivers are taking to the city's roads fuelled by drugs, booze, or distracted by phones and speeding.
The West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner and former Road Safety Minister, David Jamieson said: “Dangerous drivers are a serious hazard on the road who pose a threat to us all.
“Those who misuse substances and alcohol then think they can take control of a vehicle are not only putting their own lives at risk but also the safety and lives of all other road users. At night, when visibility is poorer for all drivers, having someone acting irresponsibly behind the wheel is foolish and highly dangerous.
“Those who speed and act erratically on the road often find themselves caught up in police pursuits, which in themselves are dangerous and highly difficult for our experienced officers.
“The overwhelming majority of road uses are good, law abiding, citizens who will be shocked by those who act dangerously, misuse substances and cause a menace on our roads.”
Though both heartbreaking and tragic to recall, BirminghamLive has compiled the most shocking cases from West Midlands in a bid to highlight the peril of dangerous driving.
This driver killed a woman when she ploughed through a red light and into another car while on her mobile phone.
Azra Williams, 54, smashed into an Audi A2 at the junction of Waterloo Road and Newhampton Road East in Wolverhampton city centre in January 2016.
The 58-year-old passenger of the Audi, Amarjit Gill, was rushed to hospital but she died from her injuries the following day. 
Police investigations showed there were three red traffic signals as Williams approached the junction in the Rover 75 she was driving.
 
There was evidence she had been on her phone in and around the time of the collision and the device was recovered from the dashboard. 
Williams was charged with causing death by dangerous driving - but ahead of her first court appearance she was detained in France and subsequently jailed for unrelated offences.
After serving her prison sentence across the channel, she was promptly extradited back to the UK on a European Arrest Warrant secured by West Midlands Police’s Serious Collision Investigation Unit.
 
She initially denied causing death by dangerous driving but changed her plea ahead of a trial at Wolverhampton Crown Court yesterday (October 28).
She was jailed for three years and banned from the road for just over five years (61 months).
Read the full story here.
This is the speeding couple who knocked down a young man as he crossed the street - leaving his dreams shattered along with his leg.
Reuben Dyer and partner Leanne Garmson mowed Christopher Hood down as he was crossing Brays Road in Sheldon on September 18, 2017.
The 28-year-old was walking home from a shift at Jaguar Land Rover when he was struck and left for dead with his catastrophic injuries.
 
The car failed to stop and police later calculated it had been travelling at 56mph on a road which had a 30mph speed limit.
It then sped off in the direction of where Dyer and Garmson lived.
The pair set fire to the car to hide the identity of the driver and five hours after the crash, fire services were called out to garages at the back of Haybarnes Road, Small Heath, to find the Astra had been totally burned out.
Dyer, 40 and Garmson, a mother of three, both of The Radleys, Sheldon, admitted a charge of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.
Dyer was jailed for two and a half years at Birmingham Crown Court, while Garmson was sentenced to two years suspended for two years.
Meanwhile, Mr Hood - a former soldier turned JLR worker - has been left to live with his life changing injuries including losing the bottom half of his leg.
His ambitions of re-enlisting in the Army were snatched away as he was struck by the hit-and-run driver - a horrific moment he has lost all memory of.
 
"I remember leaving work and stopping to buy beer on the way home," he previously told BirminghamLive.
"That's all I remember until I awoke in hospital. When I woke up I had about 13 work friends around me and there wasn't a day that one of them didn't come to see me.
"They came as soon as I woke, and kept in contact with my family a lot. I remember asking my mum four questions when I came round.
"I asked: 'Where am I? How long have I been here? What did they take - I knew they'd taken something - and where's my daughter?'
"I couldn't remember when it happened or if she was with me or not."
Read the full story of Chris' battle following the crash here.
A driver left a teenager with half a skull after ploughing into him during a police chase.
Luke Hanratty, just 19, was a popping out to the local shop when he was mown down by a Fiesta which was being pursued by officers on January 7, 2018.
The teen was cycling on the corner of Moorside Road, Yardley when fleeing crook, Steven Banford, threw him into the air and heartlessly carried on driving.
He abandoned the car shortly afterwards, fleeing the scene and later handing himself in to police three days on from the collision.
Mum Andrea Hanratty, previously spoke of the horrific moment she found her seriously injured boy in the middle of the road.
She said: "He seems to have gone up in the air and came down straight onto his head and was left lying there in the road to die. Some local kids got me from the house and told me what had happened. We didn't know whether or not he would survive."
Her son did survive, but was left with a severe brain injury and half a skull - which meant his mum was forced to give up teaching to care for him.
Banford, of Allenscroft Road, Kings Heath was jailed for two years at Birmingham Crown Court for causing serious injury by dangerous driving. Alongside this sentence, he was jailed for nine months for intending to pervert the course of justice. In total he was sent to prison for 33 months for his offences. Banford was also disqualified from driving for three years and five months.
Before the incident, hard-working Luke had been working as an apprentice and taking medical assessment to join the Navy. Due to the severity of his brain injury, he will no longer be able to work or pursue his dream. Read the full story here.
He is the unlicensed, cocaine-fulled driver who killed a much-loved police community support officer in a horrific crash.
Darren Ogom smashed into Holly Burke's Ford Fiesta after reaching speeds of up to 105mph as he led other officers on a 12-mile chase through Birmingham.
He tore through a red light at the junction of Bearwood Road and Hagley Road, leaving the 28-year-old victim fatally injured.
Ogom, 42, of Longsdale Road, Kings Norton, who admitted causing death by dangerous driving, driving without a licence and without insurance at Birmingham Crown Court was jailed for nine years.
He was also banned from the roads for 16 years.
The court previously heard he had a string of previous convictions, including smuggling cocaine in Panama and a robbery when he held a gun to a person's head.
Peter Grice, prosecuting, said an officer on patrol first saw Ogom speeding in a Renault Scenic on the 50mph-limit Aston Expressway at around 11.20pm on January 22.
"There was a pursuit that followed over the next 14 minutes over a distance of 12 miles," said Mr Grice.
He said Ogom drove towards Gravelly Hill at 60mph on a road with a 30mph limit and accelerated past another police car.
He continued at that speed while occupying the centre of the road, now being chased by two police cars.
Ogom doubled back on himself, heading back to the Aston Expressway, overtaking a bus without slowing and going through a red light and across a junction.
He also undertook other vehicle on his near side while travelling up to 105mph towards Dartmouth Circus and then Lancaster Circus.
Ogom almost collided with two cars when he went through another red light and then reached 70mph before going onto Hagley Road. Mr Grice said police gave up the chase when Ogom drove the wrong way down a dual carriageway towards oncoming traffic.
But he was picked up again by another officer at the junction of Cape Hill and Windmill Lane.
A stinger was deployed to stop Ogom but he drove over it. Mr Grice said Miss Burke had travelled along Hagley Road out-of-city and then stopped at the junction with Bearwood Road and Lordswood Road.
The lights turned green for Holly, so she moved forward to the junction, where Ogom smashed into the driver's side of her car.
Significant damage was caused to both vehicles and Miss Burke, who had suffered multiple traumatic injuries, was pronounced dead at the scene.
Read the full story here.
A speeding driver who died along with five others after he lost control of his Audi at 100mph was found to have cannabis in his system.
Kasar Jehangir lost control of the Audi S3 as he was trying to negotiate a bend between Lee Bank Middleway and Belgrave Middleway before crashing into an oncoming taxi.
Birmingham Coroner’s Court heard the taxi then collided with a Toyota Yaris, while six other vehicles were involved in the tragedy on December 17, 2017.
Taxi driver Imtiaz Mohammed, 33, was killed alongside passengers Lucy Davis , 43, and her partner Lee Jenkins, 42, after the Audi crashed into them.
 
Mohammed Fahsha, 30, Kasar Jehangir, 25, and Tauqeer Hussain, 26, who were in the Audi, died at the scene.
Mr Zakkria Khan, who was also a passenger in the Audi S3 vehicle, was the only survivor.
Coroner Louise Hunt recorded that all six died as a result of a road traffic collision.
Zakkria Khan told the hearing he had been picked up on the night and that he and the others had gone to get some food, play some snooker and drive around.
He said his last memory of that night was being in Haybarnes Road.
When quizzed about drugs by the coroner, he said there had been a pre-rolled cannabis cigarette in the vehicle, but denied they had been dealing in drugs or driving fast.
He said he did not remember whether Audi driver Mr Jehangir took any drugs.
Read the full story of the tragic crash here.
This drug addict left his dying girlfriend in a car after a head-on crash following a high speed police chase.
Adrian Paskin had been fleeing the police just moments before he smashed into a VW Golf on Crocketts Road, Handsworth on August 17 this year.
His passenger, 28-year-old mum, Sarah Handley, suffered a severe head injury in the collision and was left for dead by Paskin as he made off from the scene.
Three others in the second vehicle were left traumatised, but fortunately only suffered minor injuries in the fatal collision.
It was the second time Paskin had been involved in a high speed pursuit within hours of each other - both of which were abandoned by the police due to the high risk.
Paskin, of no fixed address, previously admitted causing death by dangerous driving, dangerous driving, driving without a licence and without insurance.
He was recently jailed for nine years and four months was also banned from the roads for 12 years and eight months.
Read the full story behind the fatal crash here.
