
# Barcelona’s managerial target prefers Real Madrid move

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:26:43+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/04/barcelona-manager-prefers-madrid/)

Barcelona are being pressured by fans and possibly even players to get rid of Ernesto Valverde. Since coming to the Camp Nou, the former Athletic Bilbao manager has won two league titles but has seen those achievements overshadowed by embarrassing eliminations in the UEFA Champions League to the hands of Roma and Liverpool.
Valverde’s man management is nothing great and nor are his tactics, so it is hard to think whether he would have achieved what he did and kept his job if it were not for Lionel Messi, Marc-Andre Ter Stegen and Luis Suarez, who have saved the club single-handedly and crucially on several instances under the 55 year old.
Lionel Messi has tipped Ronald Koeman to be the head coach at Barca, but it looks like the Dutchman won’t be vacating his hot seat with his national side at least until the end of Euro 2020. That said, Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is also among the shortlisted options to take over the Camp Nou reigns as per Diario GOL.
Jurgen Klopp has overseen a massive revamp of the Liverpool squad in the last four years and led them to the biggest prize in European football- the Champions League- in 2018/19. The former Dortmund boss is on track to win the Premier League this year and should he achieve that target, there may be many others offering him attractive money and projects.
But before even approaching the German manager, Barca’s ambitions have taken a hilt because it has been reported that Klopp will prefer coaching Real Madrid. Zinedine Zidane is also under scrutiny and even if it may not be as tight as his counterpart in Barcelona, the Whites are known for ruthlessly firing managers which is something that the Catalans don’t do.
Ernesto Valverde’s next test comes at the Nou Camp against Slavia Praha, a side that gave the Catalans a tough time in the previous fixture. Given that this time it is a home match, Barca will be expected to stream-roller past an opponent that has not much chance of staying in European competitions at the end of the group phase.
Do you think Jurgen Klopp will be successful at an already well-built team like Barcelona?
