
# Ditch The Defensiveness; Olivia Munn Gets Personal: Your ForbesWomen Updates

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Maggie McGrath**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/maggiemcgrath/2019/11/01/ditch-the-defensiveness-olivia-munn-gets-personal-your-forbeswomen-updates/)

Greetings from Detroit! I write to you from the tail end of the 6th annual Under 30 Summit, exhausted (but thrilled) from the discussions that took place over the last several days.
Throughout the Summit there was so much advice from powerful women (like Serena Williams!) given directly to the powerful young women in the audience that I wanted to see it all in one place. So, I curated some of the best business tips from women, for women, and wrote about them here—take a look if you have a minute!
I could babble for thousands of words about everything I learned from this event, but I'll spare you. Instead, I want to quickly highlight my conversation with Olivia Munn. She was our grand finale on the “women and wellness” stage Sunday, and she talked about her approach to her career and her mental health with such honesty and candor that Summit attendees were still talking about it days after. Here’s a little look at why:
“Being a minority and a woman, it is ingrained in us to tough things out. We think life is supposed to be tough,” Munn told me. “You have to make a conscious effort to take care of yourself. It’s okay.”
Cheers to that!
Maggie
P.S.: Instead of my favorite piece of advice this week, I’m going to tell you the Under 30 audience’s favorite piece of advice, courtesy of what Munn (and other speakers) said they’d tell their under-30 selves: “Break up with that guy!”
 
When longtime Citigroup executive Jane Fraser was recently promoted to president of the bank and CEO of Citi’s global consumer lending division, the announcement sparked speculation that she could soon be named CEO Michael Corbat’s successor. If this happened, it would make Fraser the first female CEO of one of the largest U.S. banks and would catapult her into a small cohort of women chief executives of S&P 500 companies. Read more!
Following Prince Harry’s letter to the U.K. media, Meghan Markle’s emotional interview about her mental health and their joint lawsuit against The Mail, 72 U.K. female politicians have now released an open letter expressing their support for the Duchess and condemning recent press coverage about her.
An Alabama law that would have banned almost all abortions in the state at every stage of pregnancy has been temporarily blocked from passing in a recent federal court ruling.
At the 2019 Forbes Under 30 Summit, Serena Williams took the stage to discuss her off-court accomplishments in business and investing. She also shared valuable advice including the need to “make those uncomfortable topics comfortable in order to make change.”
In an effort to remedy the original "Baby, It's Cold Outside" song that’s been deemed inappropriate for sending pressuring messages not in sync with the current #MeToo times, John Legend and Kelly Clarkson teamed up on a new version that offers lessons on how to obtain consent.
New research finds a link between beauty and the gender gap, including a theory that pressure for women to spend significant time, effort and money on beauty is greater when it’s determined they have a shot at achieving equality.
This month, Walmart agreed to pay $14 million to settle multiple pregnancy discrimination claims brought up against it. While the case is pending approval, here are key takeaways employees and employers should keep in mind about anti-discrimination law pertaining to the workplace.
Digital investment platform Ellevest, led by Sallie Krawcheck, announced its new female-focused Intentional Impact Portfolios initiative aimed at helping women reach their financial goals through investing in companies with products, policies and practices that benefit women.
Embrace your femininity. Women’s Small Business Month is the perfect time to remember the unique visions and energy that female entrepreneurs bring to the table. Cherish and channel the qualities that make you, you and it’ll show in your business.
Ditch the defensiveness. It’s natural to want to play defense when someone attacks an idea of yours, but it’s a tactic that will only hurt you. Next time: listen intently and say what you need to say in a calm, non-reactive way.
Be personal, but practical. It’s hard to determine what personal details about your life are appropriate to share at work. If you’re on the fence about disclosing information, ask yourself these questions to assess whether or not it’s worth opening that can of worms.
