
# 4 Big Questions Facing Roku As Cord Cutting Grows

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Toni Fitzgerald**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tonifitzgerald/2019/11/06/4-big-questions-facing-roku-as-cord-cutting-grows/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2806266663&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesTechTwitter)

Roku is invested in the growth of cord cutting. The platform delivers an easy way for people to stream over-the-top services (OTT) to their TVs, and its expansion has accelerated over the past year, dovetailing with the rise in cord cutting. As people move away from pay TV, they still want to watch premium content—just not the way they’ve done it in the past.
During a third quarter earnings call Wednesday, Roku noted the big jump in active accounts versus last year, going from 23.8 million to 32.3 million. Streaming hours soared by 68% year over year, to 10.3 billion.
Yet Roku still faces a number of questions moving forward. Here are four of the biggest ones, answers to which were partially addressed during the earnings call.

        1. How will high-profile new launches impact the service?
      
With Apple TV+’s recent launch, and the app’s inclusion on Roku, and new services from WarnerMedia and Disney on the horizon, many of the call’s questions centered on how Roku viewed these launches. The executives’ answer? Give us more. These services will bring more people to the platform, presumably.
“It’s going to be good for Roku in a bunch of ways,” said Steve Louden, Roku’s chief financial officer. “The services will increase the interest in viewership moving from traditional TV to streaming.”

        2. Can new acquisition dataxu drive greater ad revenue growth?
      
Roku recently announced the acquisition of dataxu, an advertising platform focused on data, and a majority of questions during the earnings call focused on how the acquisition will impact Roku’s advertising model.
The management team stayed vague on specifics but did say it hopes dataxu will help attract a broader spectrum of advertising clients, especially those that value programmatic buying. The aim is to help advertisers better figure out how to spend money on over-the-top.
“Today our ads that we sell are mostly sold direct, but we think ad buying is going to become more automated over time, and that’s going to accelerate our road map for our ad tech,” said Anthony Wood, founder and chief executive officer.

        3. What’s the international expansion strategy?
      
That wasn’t answered in today’s call. The Roku C-suite side-stepped several questions about international expansion. The company said in September at IFA that it will roll out Roku TV in Europe, starting with the UK before the end of the year.
But given several opportunities to expand on the strategy during the call, Wood and Louden declined to offer more details, saying they will come in 2020 and stressing that Roku wants to be more competitive in other countries vs. expanding its international presence.

        4. Does Roku plan to push into content production or remain primarily a distributor?
      
The launch of the Roku Channel two years ago sparked speculation that Roku, like just about every other content distributor, was looking to get into the content production business. But during Thursday’s call, the executives insisted that isn’t really the case. Roku Channel will remain an aggregator.
“The way we think about the Roku platform is our primary purpose is to distribute content for viewers,” Wood said. “You can publish your content in the Roku Channel, and we’re continuing to add more and more of that content.” But not creating it themselves.
