
# Hamilton 2, Ross County 2: Hamilton held to a draw as County grab late leveller

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:51:38+00:00**

Author: **Andy McGilvray, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/andy-mcgilvray/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/hamilton-2-ross-county-2-20794653)

Hamilton were denied a crucial win as Ross County fought back to take a point back to the Highlands.
It had looked like Lewis Smith was to be the Hamilton hero as he scored one and set up another, as Accies overturned a 1-0 deficit.
Accies dominated the first half but without creating too much. County grabbed an early goal through Billy McKay, and seemed content to sit on their lead.
In the second half Hamilton were a much-improved side and that dominance told as they quickly overturned the lead through goals by Smith and George Oakley.
But Ross Stewart levelled for the visitors.
Head coach Brian Rice made one change to the side that lost to Aberdeen in midweek, with Shaun Want coming in for Ronan Hughes,
Ross County's gaffers, Stuart Kettlewell and Steven Ferguson made four changes to the line-up that lost to Rangers in midweek. Keith Watson, Michael Gardyne, Lee Erwin and Billy McKay came in for Tom Grivosti, Sean Kelly, Joe Chalmers and Brian Graham.
County were without a win in five games going into this one, although they had taken four draws, including against champions Celtic.
Accies had just one win in their last five, beating Livingston here on September 28. Their home record had been good, though, with only Aberdeen, Celtic and Motherwell taking wins here this season.
Either way, County were installed as bookies' favourites ahead of the game, and  certainly looked to be living up to that as they took the lead inside 40 seconds.
County broke up Hamilton's kick-off and a move down the left resulted in Lee Erwin's angled shot being parried by Owain Fon Williams and Billy McKay tucked it away.
Hamilton tried to respond and in nine minutes Scott McMann's free kick was knocked out to Lewis Smith on the right, he checked inside and let fly with a shot that flew high past the left post.
Two minutes later Mickel Miller forced a corner on the right and Ross Cunningham's outswinger was headed just over by Sam Stubbs.
It became decidedly scrappy after that with Hamilton trying to make inroads but struggling to break County down, while the visitors seemed content to sit on their lead.
The closest they came again was in 35 minutes when Gardyne sent a shot just past the left post, with Fon Williams at full stretch.
County carved open a good chance to double their lead in 40 minutes when Erwin sent Stewart through, but Fon Williams came off his line to narrow the angle and the striker sliced his shot past the left post.
Hamilton threw on striker Steven Davies for Cunningham for the second half, going with a two-pronged attack.
The big striker nearly made an early impact, sending a curling free kick inches past the left post with Ross Laidlaw at full stretch.
However, Accies levelled in 52 minutes when Scott Martin sent Lewis Smith into the box and he checked inside before smashing a shot into the top right corner.
Accies took the lead in 65 minutes when Smith sent a delightful ball through to Oakley and he steadied himself before slamming a shot into the bottom left corner.
County tried to get back on level terms but the closest they came was in 80 minutes when sub Josh Mullin's low shot was saved by Fon Williams.
But the visitors grabbed their leveller in 88 minutes when Gardyne's cross from the left was side-footed in by Ross Stewart.
Accies were reduced to 10 for the closing stages after Scott Martin was red-carded inside stoppage time for an apparent act of aggression.
HAMILTON: Fon Williams, Want, Stubbs, Hamilton, McMann, Gogic, Martin, L. Smith (Hughes, 87), Miller (Hunt, 90+3), Cunningham (Davies, 46), Oakley.
Subs (not used): Southwood (GK), Beck, MacKinnon, Moyo.
Booked: McMann (27), Oakley (61)
ROSS COUNTY: Laidlaw, Fraser, Watson, Fontaine, Foster, Draper, Spence (Henderson, 73), Gardyne, McKay (Mullin, 65), Stewart, Erwin (Graham, 63).
Subs (not used): Dixon-Hodge (GK), Kelly, Morris, Chalmers.
Booked: Watson (30), Gardyne (50), Fontaine (76)
Referee: Colin Steven.
Attendance: 1268.
