
# Michigan State LB Bachie suspended for failed drug test

Published at: **2019-11-01T03:14:14+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-football-ncaa-msu-bachie-ineligible-idUSKBN1XB33Q)

The Big Ten on Thursday ruled Michigan State starting linebacker Joe Bachie ineligible after the senior tested positive for what the university said was “a substance that is classified as a performance-enhancing substance banned by the league.”
Michigan State plans to file an immediate appeal with the Big Ten.
“All my career I’ve done my very best to represent Michigan State in a positive manner on and off the field,” Bachie said in a statement. “I plan to appeal, but to all of those affected, from my coaches to my teammates and to the fans, I apologize for putting them through this situation. I will always be a Spartan.”
A player who tests positive for a PED for the first time loses a full year of NCAA eligibility and is not allowed to compete for 365 days from the test date. According to NCAA.com, a player loses all remaining eligibility with a second positive test for a PED.
“Joe Bachie has built himself into an All-Big Ten middle linebacker and two-time team captain through his incredible work ethic and leadership skills,” Michigan State coach Mark Dantonio said in a statement. “This situation breaks my heart, but I know Joe is resilient and accountable. No one feels worse than Joe does, a sentiment he expressed when he spoke to the team earlier (Thursday). This does not define Joe as a player, and more importantly as a man. He will graduate in December and has a very bright future ahead of him, both on and off the field.”
A three-year starter at middle linebacker, Bachie has a team-leading 71 tackles this season, including 8.5 tackles for loss and 3.5 sacks, along with one interception. In 40 career games (34 starts), he has 285 tackles, including 27.5 for loss and eight sacks, along with five interceptions.
Coaches selected Bachie to the All-Big Ten first team after his junior season.
—Field Level Media
