
# Farmers to benefit from FG’s 50% discount charge on agriculture equipment purchase 

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:14:34+00:00**

Author: **Chidinma Nwagbara**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/05/farmers-to-benefit-from-fgs-50-discount-charge-on-agriculture-equipment-purchase/)

Farmers are set to benefit from the Federal Government’s 50% discount on every agricultural equipment they purchase at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
This move, according to the Minister of State of Agriculture, Mustapha Baba Shehuri, is geared towards showing the government’s commitment and determination to improve farmers’ production capacity.
Shehuri, who made this statement during a visit to the Livestock House in Kaduna State, assured the farmers of the government’s resolution to support and also make farming equipment accessible to them to achieve food sufficiency and economic growth in Nigeria. He said that it would also help actualise the food sufficiency policy and income generation of the current administration.
Speaking further, the agriculture minister praised the farmers for working hard, mostly the rice farmers who were recording huge sales due to the border closure.

        “We will ensure that the equipment and farm inputs procured by the Ministry go directly to the people they are meant for (farmers) because they are the bedrock of government investment designed to achieve government’s policy of economic diversification and growth through the agricultural sector.
      

        [READ MORE: Nigerian fish farmers may benefit from EU’s €40m deal with FAO]
      
“The border closure has further energized rice farmers and they are working assiduously to continuously produce the quantity locally consumed and prepare to mobilise for export in the nearest future. Today, they are smiling to the banks with the impressive sales they have recorded and this opportunity has created more jobs, not only in rice production but also livestock and other commodities,” Shehuri said.
Shehuri added that even without the government’s assistance, the farmers were working tirelessly to improve the country’s economy and put food at the table for Nigerian homes. Which is why the government is focusing more on agriculture as it is an enterprising business that Nigerians can benefit from in terms of job creation.
