
# Anushka's next to be a romantic film? Sidharth on Tara and Kiara, Malaika feels Arjun is not good at THIS, SRK praises 'Panipat'

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:15:19+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/anushkas-next-to-be-a-romantic-film-sidharth-on-tara-and-kiara-malaika-feels-arjun-is-not-good-at-this-srk-praises-panipat/articleshow/71943666.cms)

Anushka Sharma was last seen in Aanand L Rai's 'Zero' in 2018. And reportedly, after taking a break for almost a year now, the actress has finalised her next project. The film will be a romantic drama but it won't be just an ordinary romance-drama but will have a twist in it.
A source was quoted saying, "She has wowed everyone with her performance in these edgy films and looks like she is gearing up for one more. So, this romantic film will have its own unique storytelling and present Anushka again in a totally different light."

        Read Also:
        Anushka Sharma’s next to be a romantic film with a twist?
      
After parting ways with Alia Bhatt, Sidharth Malhotra has been linked up with his 'Shershaah' co-star Kiara Advani and 'Marjaavaan' co-actor Tara Sutaria.
And during a recent interview, when he was asked to comment of the same, Sidharth stated that he is a method actor and tends to fall in love with all his co-stars, he further added that he is usually seen in love stories and the onscreen romance maybe trickling down to his real life.

        Read Also:
        Sidharth Malhotra on being linked to Tara Sutaria and Kiara Advani, “I am a method actor so I fall in love with all the actors”
      
Malaika Arora and Arjun Kapoor have been rocking the headlines for their relationship. Recently, the diva opened up about her beau that he is not good at one thing and that is managing his money. She also added that her otherwise perfect partner is lacks photography skills.

        Read Also:
        Malaika Arora feels his otherwise “perfect” Arjun Kapoor is not so good at THIS one thing!
      
The trailer of Arjun Kapoor, Kriti Sanon and Sanjay Dutt starrer 'Panipat' has been dropped over the internet yesterday. It received a lot of appreciation and love from the audience.
Even Shah Rukh Khan couldn't stop himself praising the trailer. Sharing the trailer on his Twitter, SRK wrote, "My friend @AshGowariker who made one of the best films of my career Swades is out with another offering. #Panipat - a grand & big cinematic experience. Here’s wishing him & his team and the effort put into this my love. Really good my man!!! Show me fast!!"
