
# Manny Arceneaux following Geroy Simon's footsteps with Saskatchewan Roughriders

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:04:40+00:00**

Author: **Greg Harder**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/football/cfl/saskatchewan-roughriders/manny-arceneaux-following-geroy-simons-footsteps-with-saskatchewan-roughriders)

After nearly a decade of catching passes in the CFL, Manny Arceneaux knows a good route when he sees one.
The veteran receiver has noticed some similarities between his own career path and that of former teammate Geroy Simon, who was a B.C. Lions’ star for many years before he authored a storybook retirement with the Saskatchewan Roughriders.
“I’m hoping my journey ends like his,” Arceneaux said. “With a Grey Cup ring.”
Simon — a Canadian Football Hall of Famer — had nine straight 1,000-yard seasons with the Lions, who traded him to Saskatchewan prior to the 2013 campaign. He finished that year with just 40 receptions for 565 yards but saved his best for last, catching two touchdown passes in a Grey Cup victory over the Hamilton Tiger-Cats.
Arceneaux followed a similar route when he signed with Saskatchewan in the off-season after compiling over 8,000 yards in eight seasons with B.C.
The former CFL all-star has just 21 catches for 240 yards in 10 games this season but — much like Simon — he has been lauded for his veteran savvy and leadership.
“I’ve been hearing (the comparisons),” said Arceneaux, 32, who’s still seeking his first CFL championship. “A lot of people that I’ve bumped into in Regina have said that: ‘Hey man, when we brought Geroy over, he kinda had the same role.’
“Like I said, we need the stories to end the same so I can say I’m a Grey Cup champ at the end of 2019.”
Arceneaux took another step toward that goal last weekend when he caught a five-yard touchdown pass — his lone reception of the day — in Saskatchewan’s 27-24 win over the Edmonton Eskimos. It was his first game back after being bumped from the lineup for three straight contests by Jordan Williams-Lambert.
Although he wasn’t happy at the time, Arceneaux says it was important to maintain a professional attitude and be a good teammate.
“That situation was something that humbled me, got my head right and just helped me view the situation in a positive way,” he said. “It ain’t all about me but I’m at a point in my career where sometimes you have to get the next crop of receivers, the next crop of athletes, ready. By me coming in here pissed off, bad energy, it’s not helping me.
“You always want politics to work in your favour but there was some good that came out of that.”
The Riders’ decision to go back to Arceneaux was noteworthy because they had signed Williams-Lambert to a contract extension following his failed NFL tryout.
Arceneaux hasn’t put up big numbers this season but his coaches and teammates will tell you that he contributes in ways that can’t always be measured.
“Manny is an aggressive player,” said offensive co-ordinator Stephen McAdoo. “Ever since he has gotten here he has brought some meanness to the receiver core. He’s a great leader out there. It was just one of those things (where) everybody gets their opportunities and it came back to Manny.”
Quarterback Cody Fajardo followed suit by looking to Arceneaux at a key juncture of the game. The wily vet came through with a go-ahead touchdown late in the third quarter.
“He’s our vocal leader,” Fajardo said. “When Manny talks, guys shut up and listen. When you have that kind of respect on the team, you understand he has done it at a high level. As a quarterback when I see that, I want to trust him in big-time situations.”
If all goes well, there will be more of those situations for the Riders, who can lock up first place in the West Division with another win over Edmonton on Saturday at Mosaic Stadium.
After that, it’s on to the West final and an opportunity to advance to the Grey Cup. That’s exactly where Arceneaux wants to be, but he doesn’t expect a free ride.
He plans to earn it.
“You don’t come here to just put on the jersey and say you’re on the team,” he added. “Obviously everyone wants to play but everybody can’t play. (Sitting him) was the team’s decision so I have to ride with whatever they chose. They gave me another shot at it. It’s just about taking advantage of the opportunity.”

        gharder@postmedia.com
      
