
# Staff evacuate koi from Dr. Sun Yat-Sen garden after deadly otter returns

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:25:00+00:00**

Author: **Angela Jung, Reporter / Web Journalist Jen St. Denis, CTVNewsVancouver.ca reporter**

Original: [bc.ctvnews.ca](https://bc.ctvnews.ca/staff-evacuate-koi-from-dr-sun-yat-sen-garden-after-deadly-otter-returns-1.4667511)

VANCOUVER – Nearly one year after a voracious otter feasted on prized koi at the Dr. Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese Garden in Chinatown, an otter has been spotted in the garden again.
"I can't confirm if it was the same otter, but it was definitely an otter," said Howard Normann, the parks director with the Vancouver Park Board.
Normann said the park board was first notified about a dead koi on Tuesday. The following day, a wildlife expert actually saw the otter, and surveillance footage captured the elusive creature on camera.
But what remains a mystery is how the otter got into the garden in the first place.
"To be quite frank, we don't know what the otter is capable of. I'm told they can climb three to four feet," Normann said. "It probably climbed over one of those gates, or if one of the gates were left ajar and it snuck in that way -- that's the only way we can see it."
An otter wreaked havoc at the pond last fall as it stalked koi and killed 11 fish. Efforts to catch the otter were not successful, but garden and park board staff made changes to places where the otter could get in or out.
After the ordeal, garden staff introduced more koi to the pond, including some baby fish. Like last time, the otter has an insatiable appetite for the valuable fish.
So far this year, six adult koi were eaten.
"I think for us in Chinatown, it is disheartening because it was such a big loss for the community," said Kevin Huang, the executive director of Hua Foundation, a non-profit in Chinatown.
Huang said koi has important cultural significance for several Asian cultures: the koi symbolizes perseverance and strength.
He said no one begrudges the park board for not catching the otter last year.
