
# Lazio were robbed by Celtic insists Joaquin Correa as striker looks for payback

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:34:14+00:00**

Author: **Mark Walker**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/lazio-were-robbed-celtic-insists-20807390)

Joaquin Correa insists Lazio were robbed of victory by Celtic in their Europa League clash at Celtic Park.
And the Argentinian attacker is looking for revenge when Neil Lennon's men travel to Italy on Thursday.
Correa netted the winner as Lazio got their first win in the San Siro against AC Milan in 30 years on Sunday.
And he is determined to defeat the Hoops this week after claiming they were desperately unlucky to leave Parkhead with nothing last month.
He said: "We have been playing really well for a few weeks now and this was just the latest big win for us.
"Even when we lost, like in Glasgow against Celtic, we actually played really well. We didn't deserve to lose, but we have a chance to make up for it this week.
"Football can be like that sometimes where you are playing well and you still go away with nothing. But if we keep playing like that, we will win far more than we lose.
"I think I am improving every day as a player here and of course it helps a great deal when you work with a striker like Ciro Immobile.
"I have some amazing team mates at the club too. We are all very determined and ready to fight for Lazio.
"It's really important now we keep this run going and that means defeating Celtic this week to give ourselves a chance of qualifying in the Europa League. "
