
# Bitcoin And Crypto Market Stuck In Range: BCH, EOS, TRX, ADA Analysis

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:00:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/04/bitcoin-and-crypto-market-stuck-in-range-bch-eos-trx-ada-analysis/)


        Bitcoin and the crypto market cap are currently moving in a range. Ethereum (ETH), EOS, Tron (TRX), BCH, ripple, ADA and BNB are trading above key supports.
      
Recently, BCH price surged above the $285 and $300 resistance levels against the US Dollar. However, the price faced a strong resistance near the $305-310 area. As a result, the price started a downside correction and declined below the $300 level.
The price is currently trading below $290 and it is approaching the $280 support area. On the upside, there are many resistances near the $300 and $305 levels. On the downside, the next key support below $280 is near $265.
EOS price failed to gain momentum above the $3.350 and $3.400 resistance levels. The price is currently correcting lower and is trading near the $3.250 level. An initial support is near the $3.200 level. If there is a downside break below the $3.200 support, the price could decline further towards the $3.050 support.
After a strong rally above the $0.0200 resistance, tron price found resistance near the $0.0225 level. TRX price is currently correcting lower and it is trading below the $0.0200 level. The next key support on the downside is near the $0.0185 level, below which the price could test the $0.0180 level.
Cardano price surged above the key $0.0400 and $0.0420 resistance levels. ADA price is currently correcting lower and is trading below the $0.0420 level. If there are more downsides, the price could test the $0.0405 and $0.0400 support levels.
Looking at the total cryptocurrency market cap 4-hours chart, there was a downside correction after a sharp rally above the $250.0B level. The market cap corrected lower and traded below the $245.0B level. It is currently consolidating above the $232.0B support area. On the downside, there are many supports near the $230.0B and $225.0B levels. There is also a connecting bullish trend line forming with support near $230.0B on the same chart.
Therefore, dips likely remain well supported in bitcoin, ETH, XRP, TRX, ADA, bitcoin cash, litecoin, EOS, stellar, IOTA, ICX, WAN, and other altcoins in the near term.
