
# Today on Fox News, Nov. 4, 2019

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:07:18+00:00**

Author: **Fox News**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/media/today-on-fox-news-nov-4-2019)


        STAY TUNED
      

        On Fox News: 
      
Fox & Friends, 6 a.m. ET: Michael Goodwin, New York Post columnist; Jerry Rice, Football Hall of Fame wide receiver.
Hannity, 9 p.m. ET: Donald Trump Jr., son of President Trump and executive vice president of Development and Acquisitions, The Trump Organization; Carter Page, former foreign policy adviser to the Trump 2016 campaign.

        On Fox News Radio:
      
The Fox News Rundown podcast: " 'It’s Become Like Professional Wrestling': Neil Cavuto on the Trade War, Impeachment and Covering News In the Trump Era" - Neil Cavuto has covered multiple recessions, a bevy of presidential scandals and an impeachment during his long career for both the Fox News Channel and the FOX Business Network. But he says these times are like no other. The veteran anchor sat down with the FOX News Rundown to discuss why covering the news in 2019 and President Trump is different than any other time. Also on the Rundown: Nearly half of voters want to see President Trump impeached and removed from office according to a new FOX News Poll. This comes after the House voted on a resolution to move forward with the impeachment inquiry on Thursday. FOX’s David Spunt is at the White House, and he weighs in on how the president and Democratic presidential candidates are reacting.  Plus, commentary by Tucker Carlson, host of “Tucker Carlson Tonight."

        Want the Fox News Rundown sent straight to your mobile device? Subscribe through Apple Podcasts, Google Play, and Stitcher.
      
The Brian Kilmeade Show, 9 a.m. ET: Special guests include: Joe Lieberman, former U.S. senator from Connecticut; Bret Baier, host of "Special Report"; Michael Goodwin, New York Post columnist and more.
