
# Watchmen Season 1 Episode 3 – What Did You Think?!

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:25:34+00:00**

Author: **Blair Marnell**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/470959-watchmen-season-1-episode-3-what-did-you-think)

Last night’s episode of  Watchmen reintroduced fans to Laurie Blake, the heroine formerly known as Silk Spectre in the comics. However, Laurie’s hero days far behind her and now she hunts vigilantes down as an FBI agent. Laurie’s history isn’t exactly a secret, nor is the fate of her ex-boyfriend, Daniel Dreiberg. Senator Keene’s dialogue obliquely confirmed that Nite Owl is still alive and also imprisoned. The implicit promise is that Keene will free Daniel if Laurie does his bidding and if he becomes President.
Regardless of that outcome, Laurie spent a good deal of time on a one-way conversation with her other ex, Doctor Manhattan. After reciting a long and complicated ghost that was seemingly unheard, Laurie got the “sign” she was looking for. But who really dropped Angela’s car from the sky? And is Doctor Manhattan really taking calls on Mars?
Meanwhile, Adrian Veidt, a.k.a. Ozymandias, definitively revealed himself as well. However, Veidt is apparently being held captive under terms that he agreed to. But that doesn’t mean that Veidt isn’t up to something. He’s seemingly testing the limits of his captivity, and looking for a way out. But if Veidt’s not behind the constant appearances of alien squid rain, then who is?
Watchmen airs Sunday nights on HBO.
Share your thoughts and reviews about the second episode in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Before Watchmen Omnibus
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
