
# Discovered: New Websites, Apps and Extensions for This Week

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:40:12+00:00**

Author: **George Kamau**

Original: [Techweez](https://techweez.com/2019/11/04/new-apps-websites-extensions-discovered/)

The internet can be a very interesting place if you know where to look at. Discovered will do the digging and bring you the best, new and interesting apps, browser extensions or websites so you don’t have to. Some of this week’s finds will be productive tools and others genuinely interesting and will be fun to try out or waste your afternoon scrolling through what they offer.
For those interested in all things Vampires, there’s now a handy site that lets you calculate chances of how we stand against vampires and if they could take over the entire human population.
The site, aptly named, Omni Calculator does the math for you and gives you six answers based on vampire mythologies such as True Blood, Twilight and Dracula. The model made by Dominik Czernia, a physics PhD student at the Institute of Nuclear Physics PAN in Krakow predicts population levels of humans and vampires over time.
The game allows you to select which types of vampires you want to start out with, then change parameters such as human population size, the number of vampires, and whether there are any vampire slayers in the mix.
If you’re into free epidemiological simulations, then you’ll love Omni Calculator.
“It was quite a time-consuming project. I started by finding an interesting paper regarding vampires, where the authors subtly suggested the existence of vampires based on real-life data,” Czernia told ScienceAlert.
Creatures allows you to create your own monster avatars suing unique Sketch symbol/Figma component just for fun. They’re interchangeable and you can pick and choose any of the elements, change their shapes and colours.
You can also play around with Monsters for Sketch and Sago Min Monsters to build adorable monsters.
Like & Liker is a simple privacy-first Instagram analytics solution that analyzes your likes, likers (which user likes you more than others)
Other features that it comes with include an unfollower finder, telling you the best time to post your photos, Instagram score in the league plus you get to know ghost followers. It is available for iOS and Android.
