
# CERT Training Highlights Need To Check Smoke Detectors, Prepare Emergency Kit

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kristen Gerencher**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kristengerencher/2019/11/02/cert-training-highlights-need-to-check-smoke-detectors-prepare-emergency-kit/)

Wildfires and preemptive power shutoffs on an unprecedented scale have disrupted California life and sent rattled residents looking to recapture a sense of security. But you don’t have to live on a coast to wonder when the next catastrophe might hit close to home. Tornadoes, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes and even terrorist events could lead to sudden decisions to either shelter in place or evacuate. Would you be ready to stay or go for at least three days and likely longer?
A few weeks ago, I joined about a dozen local residents, and a growing number of people across the country, in acquiring basic skills to help fill the gaps immediately after a disaster. That’s a time when calling 911 is typically useless because first responders are overwhelmed or unavailable, and help for mass casualty events is delayed until larger aid networks are able to set up services.  
Over the course of roughly 28 hours, our local Community Emergency Response Team teachers drilled us in disaster medical operations, light search and rescue, psychological first aid, and team organization, and I am CERT-ainly glad it did. 
Training overlapped with the first power shutoff and just happened to wrap up right before the 30th anniversary of the magnitude 6.9 Loma Prieta earthquake, lending an urgency to the skills we were learning. 
While imagining worst-case scenarios and preparing to volunteer in them isn’t for everyone, and training can’t cover everything, there are some valuable takeaways.
Here are some timely tips:

        CERT grows with the times
      
California was the birthplace of CERT, which goes by different names and is sometimes called NERT for Neighborhood Emergency Response Team. It originated in the Los Angeles Fire Department, with the first class of volunteers graduating in 1986. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) later adopted it and took it national.
The Golden State now has roughly 400 CERT programs, up from 250 a decade ago, according to the California Office of Emergency Services.
CERTs are volunteers who step in to assess damage and triage patients right after a disaster. They are tasked with performing some of the same duties as the fire department, where they are often trained. Some have healthcare backgrounds, but they represent many different professions and vocations.
CERT is a different mindset than a CPR class, where training is focused on saving individual patients one at a time. After a disaster, the focus is on “doing the greatest good for the greatest number of people.” Advanced courses are also available in things such as animal management, whether it’s pets, livestock or service animals.  
California Gov. Gavin Newsom recently announced a $50 million campaign called Listos California (Ready California) to expand CERT and other programs to “build resiliency in vulnerable communities at high risk for wildfires and other disasters.” The funds are designed to reach people who may respond to more culturally and linguistically appropriate preparedness training.
While our CERT teachers had traveled to distant disasters to assist in recovery, many students said they were most interested in aiding their immediate families and neighborhoods. Though it may sound obvious, it was comforting to hear that the first order of business in sizing up a disaster was to make sure you and your family were safe. Only after your safety is confirmed can you consider helping others. All the more reason not to neglect those emergency kits and smoke alarm batteries!
