
# Barcelona target publicly reveals attraction to Bayern Munich

Published at: **2019-11-07T02:51:26+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/07/barcelona-target-publically-reveals-attraction-to-bayern-munich/)

Havertz, in an extensive interview with Marca, admits to having an open mind when discussing his future.
The promising youngster has been linked with FC Barcelona as well as other European teams like Liverpool and Bayern Munich.
Blaugrana has been tracking the German for four years, dating back to his playing days with Leverkusen’s youth team, and will continue to watch the prospect in this week’s Champions League match between Atletico Madrid and Bayern Leverkusen.
Barca’s heavily stocked midfield, with Frankie de Jong, Sergio Busquets, Arthur Melo, Arthuro Vidal, Ivan Rakitic and Carles Alena, is currently struggling to keep up with the pace of their opponents as evident in their previous two encounters. The rotational midfield has witnessed the reduced playing time for Alena and Rakitic, along with La Masia graduate Riqui Puig who is pushing for the first team.
The Spanish giants know that Leverkusen will charge a lot of money for the in-demand player who is currently valued at €90 million euro, according to Transfermarkt. The club has its financial issues as they look to bring in €124 million euro by the end of June in order to balance the books.
Regardless of the monetary issues, the German international has shown his interest and has even spoken about his attacking style and how his presence will suit Barcelona,
The youngster also admitted having maestro Andres Iniesta as his biggest football idols, while also listing other players that have inspired him.
Amidst the player’s transfer speculations, however, Havertz has displayed his appeal for Bayern Munich.
The youngster has called upon both domestic and international teams that interest him. Leverkusen knows the quality of the player they currently possess and will surely look to demand a hefty sum for the German prospect.
Is Havertz a good fit for an already stacked Barca midfield?
