
# 2019 Breeders’ Cup: Race Day Tips, Bets You Should Make, and McKinzie’s Uphill Battle For The Win

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Guy Martin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/guymartin/2019/11/02/2019-breeders-cup-race-day-tips-bets-you-should-make-and-mckinzies-uphill-battle-for-the-win/)

Any race day has a way of clearing out the clutter, especially this one for the 2019 Breeders' Cup Classic, preceded with a big juvenile upset yesterday by Storm The Court's great win, as if to remind us that, in racing, everything's always up for grabs. Which makes this morning's questions for the low-odds Classic favorite McKinzie all the more pressing. Can McKinzie be bombed by, to be blunt, an unsung and un-bet bomb that we've discarded as an also-ran? Of course he can. But maybe he won't. Or, will the race cleave to the odds so that he can grit it out? Of course it can. But maybe it won't. His post position seems fine, but will he shear back and try to bring a run? If he does that, can he outlast Code of Honor? Of course he can. But maybe he won't.
To help us run that daunting gauntlet of calculations, we'll call in the Bluegrass Wise Man, but before that, a refresher of the post positions and the morning line. We'll update the odds as Santa Anita opens its windows and the money starts talking out in California, and we'll keep updating them until post time.

        Post position, horse, trainer, jockey, morning-line odds 
      
1. Math Wizard, Saffie Joseph Jr., Ricardo Santana Jr., 30-1
2. Seeking the Soul, Dallas Stewart, Brian Hernandez Jr., 20-1
3. Owendale, Brad Cox, Javier Castellano, 15-1
4. War of Will, Mark Casse, Tyler Gaffalione, 20-1
5. Yoshida, Bill Mott, Mike Smith, 8-1
6. Elate, Bill Mott, Jose Ortiz, 6-1
7. Higher Power, John Sadler, Flavien Prat, 6-1
8. McKinzie, Bob Baffert, Joel Rosario, 3-1
9. Mongolian Groom, Enebish Ganbat, Abel Cedillo, 12-1
10. Vino Rosso, Todd Pletcher, Irad Ortiz Jr., 4-1
11. Code of Honor, Shug McGaughey, John Velazquez, 4-1
(Source: www.breederscup.com, 1 November 2019, 7 a.m. Eastern)

        Looks like we're going to have to keep bearing down on McKinzie. The wiki, please.
      
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: Funny thing about that horse. As noted yesterday, there's nothing not to like about Bob. Probably I like Baffert and his jockey Rosario more than I like his horse this year. Haven't quite put my finger on it, but I've got some resistance to McKinzie. I think it can be that we know he's fast, we know his style is suited to the mile-and-a-quarter, but I still don't have a solid feeling about whether he can save enough gas to be there in the end. Whether he really knows how you know? I hope for Bob's sake that the horse does know that, and if he doesn't then Rosario certainly will, but I can see McKinzie maybe not getting the best trip, and fading under an onslaught by Elate or Code of Honor. And maybe that picture is holding me back. That said, I'm still gonna bet him, if not across the board, then certainly he's going to head up a few exotics for me. I wish I could be more positive about him, but I think it's going to be a close race.

        Good time to talk about how you think it will play out, then.
      
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: Even if you win going away, no race ever plays out how you think it will, and if it does, you'll probably wake up shortly. Since my basic take is that it will be close, involving in some constellation Elate, Higher Power, and the three other favorites, there's good stuff to play with. I started out yesterday being a fan of Higher Power, but I've pulled back on that a bit and now think both Elate and Higher Power have the stuff to get by Vino Rosso, at the very least. Even back when he was a three-year-old, you had the sense that Vino Rosso was an okay horse, but somehow just didn't know how to win.

        So, that means...
      
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: It means that Vino Rosso has every chance to get in somebody's way in the run to the first turn, or down the backstretch, but I don't think he's gonna be a factor. Now, I'm still biased toward Code of Honor, so I still think he's got a shot to be up in the mix as they get to the finish line. Just by plugging away, laying back, and bringing it. Hate to stick to the morning line totally, but you can't be afraid of that, either, if the horses are looking that way. Elate and Higher Power strike me as having that ability in them. It's the ability to get to the end of the race and to do something once you are there in the mix. Although as we said yesterday, they are going to have to step up to this race in a bigger way than McKinzie will. In McKinzie's favor, by the way, is that he's pretty much been there. Tried and tested. That's why the oddsmakers have him where they do.

        Give us a little more on what it means to "do something once you are there."
      
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: It means you have to know how to win. It's not enough just to get to the lead in the homestretch. You have to hold it. Gotta know that you have to carry it a step further, over the line and in time. It's not just about the fight down the backstretch or out of the turn. You have to know that you have to fight every step of the way. Some racehorses have that instinct and can use it to pull off incredible things. Justify, to name another Baffert horse.

        Anybody else got that in this field?
      
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: Well, it's not the kind of thing you can run out to Wal-mart and get an electronic detector for, so, I guess the point is that any of them can do it if they want to. By that I mean fire off and give us an amazing race. But to do it, and to want to do it consistently is the point. Get there in the end, and put it over the line. That's what the stats are for. They kind of keep, or track, that ticker going up and down on each horse, race after race. Long enough in this business, you get better at reading what they want. It's not always clear up front. That's why Seattle Slew only cost $17,000 when they bought him at the Fasig-Tipton sale.
So, who might bring that grand surprise to us this afternoon?
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: Probably easier to talk about who's not got it. Much as I like Mike (Smith) and stand in awe of his talent, he's got his work cut out for himself on Yoshida, so I don't think it's gonna happen there. I can see Owendale bringing a little something, but maybe not the win. I don't think it's gonna happen with War of Will, and neither do the oddsmakers, I think we should remember. Despite his somewhat-veteran status, I don't see Seeking the Soul bringing it, either. If there's a pleasant surprise to be had for some owners, it seems to me like it's going to come from the Elate to Code of Honor level in the morning line, your third, fourth, and fifth-favorites now, before the windows open.

        Last thoughts? Why don't you try to scare us a little.
      
Bluegrass Wise Man ™: Won't need to try very hard. Listen to me: It's going to be a close race. Yes, Baffert is in it. But anything can happen.
