
# V-MODA Enters The Pro Market With Its New M200 Studio Headphones

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Sparrow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marksparrow/2019/11/05/v-moda-enters-the-pro-studio-headphone-market-with-the-new-m200/)

Stylish Italian headphone brand V-MODA is branching out with the announcement today of the company’s V-MODA’s first-ever pair of reference studio headphones. The M-200 are the result of the continued collaboration between Roland Corporation and V-MODA. These new M-200 features are a combination of Japanese engineering and the classic shapes and materials that V-MODA is well known for.The M200 headphones have been designed with the studio environment in mind to produce a clean, refined and spacious sound with the transparency and clarity demanded by producers, musicians and sound professionals alike. V-MODA claims the new headphones deliver a crystalline audio that’s clear and neutral so subtle nuances and flaws can be easily heard.
Featuring large 50 mm drivers built with neodymium magnets and CCAW voice coils, the M-200 can reproduce a wide range of frequencies up to 40kHz for a balanced tonal range. The M-200 sound has received Hi-Res Audio certification by the Japan Audio Society (JAS). With their larger, flatter ear-cup housings compared to V-MODA’s Crossfade series, the closed-back M-200 have extra internal amplifying room for a more spacious sound with superior noise isolation. 
The M-200 feature a flexible headband enhanced by a broad design for better weight distribution which V-MODA claims should be fine for hours of comfortable wear. Designed for both the comfort and durability needed in a studio environment with an adjustable headband that’s flexible enough for single-ear monitoring but strong enough to withstand years of use over the mixing desk. The earpads are covered in sweat-resistant PU leather and feature large, detachable, magnetic memory foam cushions.
For those who want to use the M-200 on the move, the headphones can easily be folded up via their CliqFold hinge and stowed away in V-MODA’s redesigned Exoskeleton case, now featuring smoother lines and more space to house extra cables and accessories. M-200 also come with a new, single-sided, balanced audio cable, while the closed headphone design ensures optimal noise isolation. The balanced cable reduces signal-to-noise ratio to provide a cleaner and more spacious sound, making M-200 reliable for important decisions when mixing, recording or composing music.
The M-200 also come with an aramid fiber-reinforced SpeakEasy 1-Button Cable with a built-in microphone for crystal-clear phone calls, and the cable can be personalized with V-MODA’s extensive customization options.
Pricing and availability: The V-MODA M-200 professional studio headphones will be available for pre-order for a price of $350 and will begin shipping later this month through authorized resellers worldwide and at Amazon.com.
More info: www.V-MODA.com/M-200
