
# Woman who spent £14k on her body goes blind after getting her eyeballs tattooed

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:08:51+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/woman-who-spent-14k-body-20806026?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

A tattoo addict went blind for three weeks after undergoing an agonising procedure to turn her eyes blue.
Amber Luke, 24, from Central Coast, New South Wales, Australia, has spent £13,901 on transforming her looks, having her tongue split, earlobes stretched and other 'modifications'.
These include 200 tattoos, a boob job, lip and cheek fillers and ear spike implants, however getting her eyes tattooed was the most painful of them all.
Ms Luke, who refers to herself as the 'Blue Eyed White Dragon', said: "I can't even begin to describe to you what the feeling was like.
 
"The best thing I can give you is once the eyeball was penetrated with the ink, it felt like (the tattoo artist) grabbed 10 shards of glass and rubbed it in my eye.
"That happened four times per eye, that was pretty brutal. Unfortunately, my artist went too deep into my eyeball."
She added that the procedure does not cause blindness if done correctly, Mail Online reports.
 
The ordeal has put the Australian off undergoing further extreme body modifications, although she plans to keep getting tattoos until she is fully covered.
Ms Luke's mum, Vikki, broke down in tears after finding out about about her daughter's eyeball treatment.
Vikki said she questioned why her daughter took the risk, however she has accepted that there is nothing she can do to deter her.
The mother emphasised that she just wanted to support her daughter, who never saw herself as beautiful while growing up.
Ms Luke said she has no regrets about her 10-year transformation.
The 'body modifier' claims to have received a mix of negative and positive feedback from strangers about her looks.
