
# Former mortuary to become apartments under latest development of former south Belfast hospital

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan McAleer**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/business/2019/11/07/news/former-mortuary-to-become-apartments-under-latest-development-of-former-south-belfast-hospital-1758379/)

A FORMER mortuary on the site of the Belvoir Park Hospital in Belfast is set to be turned into new apartments.
The proposal by Belvoir Park LLP focuses on a number of listed buildings at the former cancer hospital, which was sold to the London-based Neptune Group in 2014. Residential development has been ongoing at the expansive south Belfast site in recent years.
The next building phase looks set to centre on the hospital's former administration building, the former nurses accommodation, two gate houses and the old mortuary.
A report prepared for Tuesday's meeting of Belfast City Council's planning committee by officials has recommended that the next phase should go ahead. It would also see two new apartment blocks built in the former hospital laundry area.
The completed project would add another 79 residential units to the site, along with underground parking. The hospital's former two-story mortuary, described by the developer as “dilapidated”, would be turned into two duplex apartments under the bid.
The City Council's planning committee will also a consider a report recommending the green light for a £12 million development for new shops and apartments on Belfast's Lisburn Road.
Galgorm Properties' proposal would replace a number of existing buildings on the site with 81 new apartments, six retail units, a 6,950 sq ft gym and 67 parking spaces.
The site is currently occupied by 12 retail units. The businesses include a Kwik Fit Garage, Tony and Jen's café, Peak Physique Gym, Max Mara, Brian Burke and financial services firm Marlborough Place.
Galgorm Properties has said some of the existing tenants may remain in the new project.
The Ballymena-based firm has said that up to 50 jobs will be involved in the construction phase.
The apartments include a mix of one, two and three-bed residences.
The decision to approve the project is subject to a number of conditions, to resolve some issues with DFI Roads and Rivers Agency around transportation and drainage.
Councillors on Belfast City Council's planning committee will have the final say on both projects on November 12.
