
# Mi Organic Solid T-Shirts now on sale in India - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:48:41+00:00**

Author: **Abdul**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/mi-organic-solid-t-shirts-now-on-sale-in-india/)

Rate this post
If you have been following Xiaomi for a long time, you might be aware of the company’s wide range of products. They not only sell smartphones but smart TVs, rice cookers, umbrella, toys, shoes, and many more products spread across various categories. One such product is Mi Organic Solid T-shirt, which has now been made available in India at ₹499.
The new Mi Organic Solid T-shirts are made of 100% pure organic cotton according to the company. The cotton used in making these T-shirts have been grown without using any artificial fertilizer or pesticide. Thus, these Mi-branded eco-friendly T-shirts have also been certified by the Global Organic Textile Standards for authentic organic cotton usage.
The Mi Organic Solid T-shirts will be only available in Black and White colours. As far as sizes are concerned, it will come in S(small), M(medium), L(large), and XL(extra-large). To make things more interesting, these T-shirts will feature label tags with Tulsi(holy basil) seeds which can be planted by the buyer. Also, the product will arrive in Cora Cotton bag which is 100% cotton and biodegradable. Moreover, the bag can be washed and reused for other use.
You can buy the Mi Organic T-shirts at ₹499 from Mi.com, Xiaomi’s official online store. Like any other lifestyle products from Xiaomi, it will be made available at Mi Home flagship stores across India in the near future.
