
# FXBTG Financial Limited, the subject of a March interest.co.nz article, fails to have FMA directed removal from NZ's Financial Service Providers' Register overturned in court

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Gareth Vaughan**

Original: [interest.co.nz](https://www.interest.co.nz/business/102414/fxbtg-financial-limited-subject-march-interestconz-article-fails-have-fma-directed)

The Financial Markets Authority (FMA) is cheering a High Court judgment upholding its decision to have FXBTG Financial Limited removed from New Zealand's Financial Service Providers' Register (FSPR).
A March interest.co.nz article about FXBTG Financial highlighted that the company had been the subject of three warnings from overseas regulators. We also noted that FXBTG Financial, which is registered in NZ to provide financial adviser services, broking and custodial services and trade foreign exchange on behalf of others, has a Cayman Islands parent company and claimed to operate from a residential address in Auckland's Mt Roskill. We also reported that its website said; "We chase our dream indomitably."
In June, the FMA directed the Companies Office, as the registrar of the FSPR, to de-register FXBTG Financial because it wasn’t providing financial services to NZ customers. FXBTG Financial appealed this decision at the High Court in Wellington in September. However Justice Francis Cooke dismissed the appeal.
Despite being kicked-off NZ's FSPR, FXBTG Financial will be free to remain a NZ registered company.
Here's a statement from the FMA. Interest.co.nz has sought comment from FXBTG Financial.
