
# Galaxy's CAF Journey Ended By Nigerian Giants

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/caff-confederation-cup/caf-confederation-report-ts-galaxy-v-enyimba-03-november-2019/666639)


        CAF Confederation Cup
      
Result: TS Galaxy 1-2 Enyimba (Enyimba won 4-1 on agg.)
Date: 03 November 2019
Venue: Mbombela Stadium
TS Galaxy's CAF Confederation Cup journey came to an end on Sunday, after losing 4-1 on aggregate to Nigerian outfit Enyimba in the play-off round.
The Nedbank Cup champions entered the encounter with a lot of work to do after suffering a 2-0 loss to Enyimba in Nigeria two weeks ago.
Galaxy have enjoyed a good record at home in the Confederation Cup this season, having registered two wins without conceding against the likes of St Louis Suns and CNaPS Sport.
Dan Malesela's troops were finding it tough to break down the Nigerian Football Premier League outfit and had to wait until the 30th minute for an opening as Tshepo Chaine fired wide from close range.
Unfortunately for the hosts, that proved to be the only real effort of the opening stanza as frustration began to build for Galaxy at the Mbombela Stadium.
Despite looking livelier in the second half, it was Enyimba who got the opening goal in the second leg thanks to a 76th minute strike from Daniel Darkwah to make it 3-0 on aggregate.
The Nigerians doubled the lead with eight minutes remaining in the second, with Martins Usule getting his name on the score-sheet as his side secured a spot in the group stage while Galaxy bow out.
Galaxy did managed to pull a goal back in the latter stages of second stanza through Terrence Mashego, but it was nothing more than a consolation as Enyimba triumphed 2-1 on the day and 4-1 on aggregate tp secure a spot in the group stages.
