
# Niko Kovac Under Pressure After Bayern Munich’s Historic 5-1 Defeat Against Frankfurt

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Manuel Veth**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/manuelveth/2019/11/02/niko-kovac-under-pressure-after-bayern-munichs-historic-5-1-defeat-against-frankfurt/)

Bayern Munich head coach Niko Kovac looked tired, thoughtful, as he listened to the answers of Eintracht Frankfurt head coach Adi Hütter. Moments earlier Bayern Munich had suffered a historic 5-1 defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt.“I know how this business works,” Kovac said. “I'm not naive. I did not give up before and will not give up now. You have to stick to the things you believe in.”
"The game went exactly as we didn't want it to,” Kovac said. For the German record champions, it was the biggest defeat in the Bundesliga since the historic 5-1 defeat to VfL Wolfsburg ten years ago. That result paved the way to Wolfsburg’s first-ever Bundesliga title and also was the beginning of the end for head coach Jürgen Klinsmann.
The general feeling on Saturday was similar to the feeling ten years ago. Kovač struggles to reach a side that seems to collapse when faced with adversity.
On Saturday adversity represented itself in the form of Jérôme Boateng’s red card in the tenth minute—the second-fastest red card in Bayern history. Just 24 minutes later Filip Kostić (25’) and Djibril Sow (34’) had made it 2-0 for Frankfurt. Just before the break, Robert Lewandowski gave Bayern some hope when he scored his 14th goal in his tenth Bundesliga game.
Lewandowski’s goal in the 37th minute, however, only briefly stopped the floodgates. Four minutes into the second half David Abraham made it 3-1. Frankfurt now played with foam in front of their mouths, every attack was dangerous and in the 61st minute, Martin Hinteregger headed home Frankfurt’s fourth of the evening.
“You can't lose 5-1 here, even with 10 men,” Kovac said. “That's disappointing,” Kovac said. “The red card was a key moment,” Frankfurt head coach Hütter admitted.
"It's not easy when you play with a man less for 80 minutes in Frankfurt,” Kovac said. “It was not what we expect from ourselves. Certainly, we did not play well in the second half. The red card is a deciding factor, but we did not play well either."
At that point, the game was already lost for Bayern. But Kovac’s side failed to get control over the match and Frankfurt created further chances. "We make too many mistakes,” Kovac said. “When we lose the ball in the opponent's area, we have to quickly regroup and get the ball back. These are easy mistakes that are punished immediately."
One of those mistakes led to the fifth goal of the night. André Silva tanked his way past David Alaba into the box and found his Portuguese compatriot Gonçalo Paciência to cap off a five-star performance.
It almost appeared like Eintracht Frankfurt knew exactly how to hit Bayern. Furthermore, head coach Adi Hütter never let off the pressure. Even when up by two goals the Eagles coach added another striker adding scorer Silva for defensive midfielder Gelson Fernandes.
For Frankfurt, it was an incredible result. The Eagles collected three points against Leverkusen and now against Bayern in two back home games. “We are now in sixth, that is the bottom line,” Hütter said.
The Frankfurt head coach was in a good mood after the game. The same cannot be said about Kovac, who had to answer uncomfortable questions about the future.
"I don't know about that,” Kovac said about his future. “You probably know better. How should I know just after the game? My feeling is not important. Those who make the decisions are the ones that you should ask."
The red card aside Bayern lacked tactical cohesion in the defensive third. Alphonso Davies is a good example. The young Canadian started in his third competitive game in a row as David Alaba moved to the center to play center-back.
As a result, Frankfurt had an easy time pushing forward on the right flank. Danny Da Costa, in particular, bullied Davies, who on his 19th birthday had an excellent game going forward but also showed that he is no defender.
Defense, however, is a key area for Kovac. An area that is lacking players. Lucas Hernández and Niklas Süle are out with long-term injuries. Boateng will now at least miss one match due to a red card.
Not the best scenario for Kovač to salvage an increasingly difficult season. Bayern will face Olympiacos in the Champions League on Wednesday and then Borussia Dortmund at home for the Klassiker next Saturday before heading into the international break. Two crucial games for the Bayern Munich head coach.
