
# Hyundai Creta gets benefits of up to Rs 1 lakh

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jaiveer Mehra**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/hyundai-creta-gets-benefits-of-up-to-rs-1-lakh-414766)

Benefits of up to Rs 1 lakh offered on the Creta as Hyundai is keen on making space for the introduction of an all-new model next year.
The Creta has been a hot-seller for Hyundai in India for a while now, but in recent years, the competition has grown to include newer and better-equipped models such as the new Kia Seltos and the MG Hector. Sales for the SUV have seemed to slow down in recent months with going down from 8,334 units in June to 6,641 units in September this year. While the number was still good enough to earn its a 4th spot in the top five bestselling SUVs and MPVs list, the Seltos climbed to occupy a spot above the Hyundai.
According to our sources, Hyundai is offering benefits of up to Rs 1 lakh on its SUV, as it is keen on making space for the introduction of an all-new model next year. The Creta has been on sale for four years now, with the brand rolling out updates for it quite regularly. A facelift was launched just last year but it has started to feel decidedly last-gen when compared to newer arrivals like the Seltos.
Interestingly, Hyundai seems to be pushing sales of the 1.6-litre engine-equipped version with the highest discounts being listed for the variants in question.
The Creta remains a user friendly, well-equipped (especially in its fully loaded trim) SUV and is offered with a choice of a 1.6-litre petrol, 1.4-litre diesel, and a more powerful 1.6-litre diesel engine. The 1.6-litre units come with the choice of manual and automatic gearbox options, while the 1.4 diesel only gets a manual gearbox.
The next-gen Creta, set to debut in India next year, will share its underpinnings with the Kia Seltos with the SUV also carrying over the latter’s BS6-compliant engines.
Priced starting at Rs 9.99 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi), the Creta rivals the Kia Seltos, MG Hector, Nissan Kicks, Renault Kaptur and Tata Harrier.

        
          Disclaimer: Discounts vary from city to city. Please check with your local dealer for exact discounts, which may not match figures quoted here.
        
      

        Also read:
      

        
          2020 Hyundai ix25 (Creta): A close look
        
      

        
          New Hyundai Creta E+ 1.6D priced from Rs 10.88 lakh
        
      

        
          India-spec 2020 Hyundai Creta takes shape
        
      
Rs 11.60 lakh * On Road Price (New Delhi)

        FIND OUT MORE
      
