
# The Lazio tactical switch that indicates Celtic are in for a tough time in Europa League crunch match

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:18:16+00:00**

Author: **Gabriel McKay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/lazio-tactical-switch-indicates-celtic-20804514)

Lazio coach Simone Inzaghi has given a clear indication that he'll name his strongest team against Celtic in the Europa League, with a double substitution against Milan.
Star striker Ciro Immobile didn't start in the defeat at Celtic Park , though he did come off the bench in the second half.
Tonight the Italian international scored his 100th goal for Lazio with a fine header at San Siro - but Inzaghi's second half substitutions indicate he will face Celtic.
With 60 minutes played and the score at 1-1, the Biancocelesti boss took off both Immobile and Serbian star Sergej Milinkovic-Savic.
Felipe Caicedo and Marco Parolo replaced the pair, but the fact they were withdrawn with half an hour to play is a clear indication that Inzaghi intends to start them on Thursday.
Immobile and Milinkovic-Savic are arguably Lazio's two best players and their withdrawal in such a delicately poised game suggests they'll be unleashed on Neil Lennon's side.
The Italian giants will be eliminated from the Europa League if they lose this week and it seems Inzaghi wants his strongest XI at the Stadio Olimpico.
Immobile seems certain to play in any case, as Felipe Caicedo had to be withdrawn late on with an injury.
