
# Save $80 On The Bose SoundLink Resolve Bluetooth Speaker

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:21:35+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/bose-soundlink-resolve-sale-black-friday-amazon-deal)

Amazon has the Bose SoundLink Resolve on sale right now for just $119. That is good for $80 off of its regular price, and that also brings it down lower than it was for Black Friday last year.
This is actually a big deal, considering Bose products never really drop in price. So seeing it drop at all is a big deal. And getting the Bose SoundLink Resolve for just $119 is a really great deal.
The Bose SoundLink Resolve is a portable Bluetooth speaker, that offers 360-degree sound. It's made of aluminum, so it looks really nice too. It's one of the few 360-degree speakers that Bose has in its lineup, and it's definitely worth picking up for that reason alone.
Advertisement
With it being able to put out 360-degree sound, you'll be able to put this in the middle of the room and everyone will be able to hear it, without any issues. It is also going to put out some really good sound quality. This is partially thanks to the pretty powerful woofer that is built-in. It's going to give you some really good sounding bass, as well as some crystal clear mids and highs. Making it sound really well. It's not as bass heavy as a Sony or Beats speaker might be, but it is very crisp.
The Bose SoundLink Resolve also comes with some decent battery life. We're looking at around 12 hours on a single charge. That is pretty standard for a speaker of this size. Bose also made sure that the SoundLink Resolve was water resistant. Now it is not water proof, but it can handle a splash of water. It has an IPX4 rating, which is okay for some splashes, but it can't be submerged under water.
You can pick up the Bose SoundLink Resolve Bluetooth speaker from Amazon by clicking here.
Advertisement

        Bose SoundLink Resolve - Amazon - $119
      
