
# Microsoft brings new Office beta app for Android users

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/microsoft-brings-office-beta-app-for-android-users/)

Microsoft has released a new Office beta app on the Google Play Store for Android users. Named Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint & more, the app combines all the popular and powerful Office tools such as Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.
The app will let you create, edit documents and will also let you store them in the cloud or on your Android smartphone. You’ll be able to collaborate with others to jointly work on documents. Further, it has Sticky Notes integration, which will help you quickly jot down notes without switching to the Sticky Notes app.
To be able to create PDFs from photos or Word, Excel, and PowerPoint documents and sign PDFs using a finger are other important features that a lot of users will find useful.
The idea of a single app that provides all the important Office tools is not new, however. Back in the days when Windows Phone was a thing, Office Hub app offered access to Word and OneNote documents, Excel spreadsheets and PowerPoint presentations. Needless to say, the new beta app on Android is more powerful than almost a decade old Office Hub.
While this is in Public Preview, anyone who is running Android 6 or newer is eligible to install the app without going through the pain of signing in to the Microsoft Account. However, if you want to access and save documents on OneDrive and SharePoint, you’ll need a Microsoft Account.
You can download the new Office beta app from the below link, or you can head over to Google Play Store.
via ALumia
