
# On This Day Of The Dead, Religion And The Origins Of Capitalism Revisited

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Domitrovic**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/briandomitrovic/2019/11/01/on-this-day-of-the-dead-religion-and-the-origins-of-capitalism-revisited/)

A little while ago I was talking with an insurance agent. I asked him what market there was for these life insurance policies that one takes out at 55 or 65 years of age. The premiums are so high, thousands of dollars a month for a death benefit of maybe half a million.
The agent said that there are some examples. He knew of a businessman whose successful company had hit a rough patch. The businessman first tried to save the operation. That failed, so he proceeded to draw down his entire cash pile, his accumulated income from the business in its high years, to keep his employees afloat until they all could find another good situation. Personally, he came out of it broke. He knew he could get back on his feet somewhat, enough to pay the premiums, as he approached his golden years. With the insurance policy after the business episode, he was secure that his family would have a little something if he died. All his old employees were flourishing elsewhere.
The agent tossed off this story like it was routine. I am not sure he realized he was telling it. There are leaders in business who really care about other people.
Around the same time, on a call-in show on religious radio, I listened to a woman who was obviously consumed with love-of-neighbor ask a question of the pastor on the other end. She wanted to know what happens after death to unrepentant, unreconstructed bad people whom one loved a great deal during life. What happens if they are consigned to the netherworld—what happens to our love for them?
He explained to her, gently, that in heaven the saved will experience a transformation of consciousness that will relieve them of that care. It was not clear that this answer was theologically invalid. The woman walked away from that phone call rather like the rich man who turned away from Jesus. You could tell in her voice that she realized that in seeking her own salvation, she might forsake the consuming capacity to love that had taken over her persona in this life, so as to enter into a paradise along the lines of an Aldous Huxley or Anthony Burgess dystopia.
Homo economicus, we always hear, is selfish, even greedy, and looks out for #1. The pious in theory live for others. Could it be the other way around? Could it be that the economy provides a proving ground for people who are moved to see other people flourish, while religion fosters a self-prioritization in the form of personal salvation?
Thomas Aquinas encouraged us to explore such questions to the full, to push objections to their point of maximum capacity and power. Let us strike out in this direction in this case.
As a historical matter, it has long been puzzling that the industrial revolution and “capitalism” came out of Christendom. Explanations are offered that Christianity emphasized the dignity of the individual. Eventually this translated into the expansion of the market, in which individual preferences are given full expression. The articulators of this view have an almost palpable lack of confidence in it, as if it were a force, as if the puzzle remains in place: why did the industrial revolution issue from Christendom?
One of the problems is that however much we may say that Christianity is a religion of personal dignity, it has strong opposite tendencies. Those who are damned are so for eternity on the moment of their death, forever separated in torment while the saved are in ignorant bliss. This vision encompasses what we might rightly see as an anti-dignity of the individual. 
Hades and its cognates exist in many religions, but perhaps it was the dignity-deficit within Christianity that called forth a correction among its believers who saw the problem. Perhaps those moved by the love-of-neighbor that Christianity strives to put at its center broke out of the personal-salvation solipsism trap and tried to set up some conditions here on earth where one and all could do well and share and be affluent and flourish. The realization that heaven itself had objectionable qualities compromised the argument that you cannot build a heaven on earth. In other words, perhaps capitalism came about as a corrective within Christianity.
Deirdre McCloskey’s magnum opus on Bourgeois Dignity at the dawn of the industrial revolution is not inconsistent with this view, in my assessment.   
Classically, there was a natural balance in Christianity between the mandates of love-of-neighbor and personal salvation. The religion came into crisis when one would predominate over the other—or when both would founder. During the Renaissance, Dante hoped the church would serve the “end” of salvation, the worldly authority that of peace, order, and flourishing. The Italian politicians schooled in virtue could not quite bring themselves to govern, as opposed to contemplate, and the civic field was left to unpalatable immoralists like Machiavelli, the church to the corrupt. The Reformation, in turn, renewed focus on the dual mandate, as it were, of personal salvation and love-of-neighbor.
One way, possibly, that Christian culture explored its responsibilities at this juncture was ingeniously to discover a new wide field of love-of-neighbor in the bewildering conditions of the Reformation. Max Weber’s venerable thesis of the connection between Calvinism and the origins of capitalism, clumsy as it may have been, was a pointer. Reformer Calvin said that personal salvation was settled at the time of our birth. This served to de-emphasize personal salvation, in the drama of life, in favor of love-of-neighbor. If, per Weber, capitalism grew out of the Calvinist ethos, the connection could be to that mandate of love.
The stress on common good over private good had been a hallmark of Christian communities in the Middle Ages. As a long era of religious contestation and warfare followed the Reformation, the proving ground for such an endeavor was made uninhabitable. The rise of Calvinist Dutch commercialism radiating outward from Europe—a predicate of the industrial revolution—reimagined that proving ground as the extent of the market.
St Augustine called on horizontal and vertical metaphors to describe the Christian ethos. There is a pilgrimage in time (horizontal) towards salvation (vertical). In a similar way, the two Christian mandates, of personal salvation (vertical) and love of neighbor (horizontal) might be seen to require an equilibrium with respect to each other. Whenever the personal salvation mandate became too acute, a correction in the horizontal field materialized within Christian culture. This may well be where capitalism originated, as the Reformation reformulated debate on what it meant to be saved.
The left is wont to argue that capitalism is the antithesis to love-of-neighbor, that it is a perversion of the religious ethos, that it is a “Black Mass” (pace the Madonna of Częstochowa): greed has been at the center of the rise of capitalism. Perhaps it was love. Christian history can suggest the latter.
Great latter-day saints, on this Day of the Dead/Feast of All Saints, indicate that love-of-neighbor can involve a degree of religious renunciation. St. Mother Teresa made clear that the more she became consumed with her charity toward those in need (and not in need), the more she perceived that she was alone, that God was not with her. It may have been a prerequisite for her heroic other-directedness that she purged herself of care for her own salvation drama so that all her strength and person was devoted to her innumerable beloved that fate had put in her way.
Bonhoeffer wrote from his Nazi prison cell: concerning “the individualistic question about personal salvation….Aren’t we really under the impression that there are more important things than that question…? I know it sounds pretty monstrous to say that. But, fundamentally….does the question about saving one’s soul appear in the Old Testament at all? Aren’t righteousness and the Kingdom of God on earth the focus of everything, and isn’t it true that Rom. 3.24ff. is not an individualistic doctrine of salvation, but the culmination of the view that God alone is righteous?” 
Pope Francis ruffles feathers when he says if things are getting in the way, set aside the moral law and doctrine etc. and concentrate on doing good, just do good. I have wondered these years of his pontificate how anti-capitalist he really is. 
