
# Karamo Brown, ‘DWTS’ star, bemoans death threats ‘fr

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jessica Chasmar**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/7/karamo-brown-dwts-star-bemoans-death-threats-from-/)

“Queer Eye” culture expert Karamo Brown said he was recently the target of death threats from his “own side” after he was nice to President Trump’s former press secretary Sean Spicer after they appeared together on “Dancing with the Stars.”
Mr. Brown felt the wrath of social media in August after he called Mr. Spicer a “good guy” and said he hoped to have “respectful” conversations with the former Trump official about his politics. During an interview on BuzzFeed News’ “AM to DM,” Mr. Brown said the mild praise brought on a flurry of threats, including ones directed at his own son.
“The minute that my son started getting death threats was the worst moment for me, because a lot of it wasn’t coming from the other side, it was coming from my own side,” he said.
“And It hurt my heart — I’m kind of getting emotional now — because I just never thought in my heart that people would look at me, and think as a black, gay man living in America, that I was somehow part of the enemy,” he continued.
“Just like what happened with Ellen, you know, when she sat next to George Bush and she got all this backlash,” he added. “We’re in a place where people are feeling really on edge. And if you feel encouraged to speak to someone and reach out to them who has different political views, you should do it, because I felt it. And I will never feel bad for doing what I know is right in my heart.”
Mr. Brown made similar comments during his appearance on Bravo’s “Watch What Happens Live” Tuesday night, saying he was forced to shut down his Twitter account due to the threats, The Hill reported.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
