
# Trump administration halts enforcement of Obama nondiscrimination healthcare rules

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:30:06+00:00**

Author: **Kimberly Leonard**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/healthcare/trump-administration-halts-enforcement-of-obama-nondiscrimination-healthcare-rules)

The Trump administration said it will not enforce rules set during the Obama administration that require organizations that get government grants to show they are protecting against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
The rules would apply to grants from the Department of Health and Human Services, which includes healthcare services as well as adoption, foster care, and housing for youths and seniors. The agency's announcement came Friday and applies to rules the Obama administration published in 2016.
The news was met with backlash from organizations devoted to gay and transgender rights.
"This rule will openly encourage discrimination on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, AND religion in *all* HHS programs. This is taxpayer-funded discrimination. Religion is NOT a #LicenseToDiscriminate," tweeted Lambda Legal.
But the Catholic Association Foundation said the rule would allow faith-based adoption and foster care providers to receive federal money without compromising their beliefs.
“The Trump administration has come through once again in defense of religious freedom," said Andrea Picciotti-Bayer, legal adviser for the foundation. "The proposed HHS rule frees faith-based adoption and foster care groups participating in programs that receive federal grants from the prior administration’s demand they include sexual orientation as a protected trait under anti-discrimination protections."

        This story is developing.
      
