
# Analyst: Bitcoin More Likely to Surge 50% to $14,000 Than Fall

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:00:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/01/analyst-bitcoin-more-likely-to-surge-50-to-14000-than-fall/)

Over the past few days, Bitcoin (BTC) has found itself in a lull. This is for good reason; after a 42% surge in under 24 hours, it makes sense for the cryptocurrency market to want to take a breather.
Despite the fact that it makes sense for Bitcoin to see a period of calm and a slight retracement after a monumental surge higher, some analysts have flipped bearish, believe it or not.
In fact, as reported by this outlet previously, one trader expects for BTC to enter the high-$6,000s or low-$7,000s in the coming weeks. The idea here is that that region is where there exists a confluence of technical levels: the 0.5 Fibonacci Retracement of the $3,200 to $14,000 move, the bottom of a descending channel, amongst other important levels.
But, with the candle for the month of October recently closing relatively strong above $9,000, some say it is only a matter of time before the crypto market continues to mount higher, potentially to kickstart the second phase of this ongoing bull cycle.
Trader HornHairs has noted that he “likes the chance we hit $14,000 before $7,000.” But why, exactly, does the trader expect Bitcoin to surge higher by 55% from the current price of $9,200 over the alternative scenario of a collapse to $7,000.
Well, it has much to do with where Bitcoin has just bounced from and where it closed October. He remarked in a recent tweet that with Bitcoin bouncing strong and holding above the one-month bullish breaker, the 0.618 Fibonacci Retracement of the entire cycle, the Point of Control as defined by the volume profile, and the yearly pivot, BTC is leaning rather bullish.
