
# Brendan Rodgers' top four dream looks increasingly realistic after Leicester's latest win

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:19:25+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/match-reports/brendan-rodgers-top-four-dream-20803154)

The Premier League table tells its own story of a power shift.
Leicester City are up to third, six points ahead of Arsenal in fifth and looking streets ahead of the rest in the battle for a Champions League place.
Maybe we should not be too surprised as, after all, it was only four seasons ago that Leicester were crowned champions in the greatest upset of them all.
But now Brendan Rodgers has got them dreaming again, playing arguably better football than in their title-winning season and, outside of the top two, they are the best team to watch in the Premier League.
Leicester were excellent as they controlled the game at what is traditionally a tricky away ground; it was Rodgers’ first time back at Selhurst Park since Liverpool blew a three goal lead and the title in 2014 but this just went to underline his own career resurgence.
Rodgers has embraced the old and the new face of the club as Turkish centre half Caglar Soyuncu has gained cult status among the fans, was rock solid in defence and his brilliantly improvised opener put Leicester in control.
But no Leicester story would be complete either without Jamie Vardy, one of the mainstays since the 2016 title success, making sure he had a part to play.
Vardy, 32, was taunted throughout the game by Palace fans after his wife Rebekah’s Twitter spat with Coleen Rooney and yet he had the perfect response late on.
Former England striker Vardy poached a second goal - who has got 19 goals since Rodgers took charge last February - then taunted the Palace fans, by flapping his arms about like an eagle, the South London club’s mascot.
It was typical Vardy and it is what he does best: thrive on anything and everything to spur himself on.
There was Gareth Southgate’s No.2 Steve Holland sat in the crowd at Selhurst Park and how England must wish Vardy had not retired from international football.
Leicester now zip it about brilliantly, they have two of the best attacking full backs in the division - Ricardo Pereira and Ben Chilwell - and options in attack to support Vardy with James Maddison strutting about as if he owned the pitch in the No.10 role.
Palace defended well but had little to offer in return, although Leicester did find it difficult to make a breakthrough. Chilwell’s flick to Maddison’s whose brilliant pass set Vardy clear was their best first half opening but Palace keeper Vicente Guaita saved well.
Leicester defender Jonny Evans forced Guaita into a brilliant tip over as the visitors stepped up the pressure after half time and another Maddison corner brought the opener after 57 minutes.
Maddison’s ball was inadvertently flicked on by Patrick van Aanholt, Soyuncu showed great agility as he repositioned himself to head powerfully home from close range.
From then on, the outcome never looked in doubt. Palace showed some fight, but created little as Wilfried Zaha tried hard but met a good match in Pereira. Leicester even showed they are ready to mix it as Evans was booked for a brutal foul on Cheikhou Kouyate.
As Palace ran out of steam, Leicester looked increasingly dangerous on the break. Substitute Demarai Gray broke into the Palace box, cut the ball back for Vardy and the striker steered the ball home for a second two minutes from time.
It was like the moment Vardy had been waiting for all game. He taunted the Palace fans, ignored the abusive chants as he trudged off at the final whistle and he enjoyed the last laugh.
Leicester are on the march, they will take some stopping and they can cement their place in the top four next weekend as Arsenal are the visitors to the King Power Stadium.
No-one will fancy going there these days.
Guaita 6 - Super save to deny Evans’ header but nothing he could do about the winner.
Ward 6 - He is solid enough, but but does not offer as much going forward as Wan Bissaka.
Tomkins 5 - Booked. Struggled with Vardy’s pace and movement whereas Cahill reads danger.
Cahill 7 - Solid game. Impressive bit of business by Palace to sign him in the summer.
Van Aanholt 6 - Unwittingly flicked on Maddison’s corner for Leicester opener, tried to make amends.
Zaha 7 - Everything good goes through Zaha, they rely on him so heavily. Had his moments.
Kouyate 7 - Had an energetic, busy game in midfield. But was in the wars with challenges and clashes.
Milivojevic 6 - Steady performance in central midfield, Palace’s captain always leads by example.
McArthur 5 - Just did not get in enough crossing positions to create problems.
Schlupp 6 - Booked. Up against his old club, you could see he gave everything.
Ayew 5 - Gives Palace movement up front but does lack a presence. Very few chances.
Subs: Meyer (Kouyate, 74 mins), Benteke (McArthur, 78 mins), McCarthy (Ayew, 78 mins)
Schmeichel 6 - Was pelted by red and blue balls of paper, but nothing distracted him.
Pereira 7 - Such an impressive attacking right back, he also did great job on Zaha.
Evans 6 - Booked. His uncharacteristically rash lunge on Kouyate lucky only to get yellow.
Soyuncu 8 MOTM - Booked. Nicknamed Lord Farquaad from Shrek, he has cult status.
Chilwell 7 - Proved he is not just a good attacking full back but can defend as well. Good.
Ndidi 7 - His energy and work rate absolutely crucial to the way Leicester play.
Tielemans 7 - Is really proving his worth in central midfield, nice touches and vision.
Maddison 7 - One pass, with outside of his boot, was delicious. His corner led to winner. Talent.
Perez 6 - Not his most effective game, was on the fringes and was substituted early.
Barnes 6 - A big prospect who is making strides under Rodgers, he was a threat.
Vardy 7 - Taunted over his missus by Palace fans, made him determined to score.
Subs: Gray (Perez, 74 mins), Morgan (Barnes, 84 mins) Praet (Maddison, 90 mins)
