
# Death Stranding review – Hideo Kojima's radically tough slow-burning epic

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:01:11+00:00**

Author: **Dan Dawkins**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/games/2019/nov/01/death-stranding-review-playstation-4-pc-kojima-gameplay)

4 / 5 stars 4 out of 5 stars. PS4, PC; Sony / Kojima ProductionsWith technically brilliant gameplay that denies instant gratification, Kojima’s uncompromising game is this year’s most interesting blockbuster by far
For almost three and a half years, Death Stranding has kept us guessing about its true nature – and when the credits roll after a gruelling, occasionally magical, 60 hours of delivering parcels-turned-metaphors, you won’t know whether to laugh or cry with relief. Divisive creator Hideo Kojima’s open-world epic resolves its mysteries, but your satisfaction is numbed by painful memories of relentless trekking, jarring menu management and some – frankly wild – tonal shifts. Over time, your relationship with Death Stranding may start to shift, but it’s a slow-burn album track, not a pop hit.
Your feelings about Hideo Kojima’s longest, most indulgent, project will hinge on how you buy into the game’s theme about the importance of belief when all seems futile. About 80% of your time is spent trudging across mountains delivering parcels. Imagine Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos atoning for his sins in an especially cruel episode of Black Mirror. At times, the act of playing Death Stranding is a test of faith in itself, not only in Hideo Kojima’s ability to surprise, but that your efforts will ultimately be rewarded.
For reasons unknown, America has been fractured by the Death Stranding event, causing the dead to roam the world of the living as shadowy spectres known as the beached things, or BTs. People have retreated into isolated communities and your job is to deliver supplies and reconnect the chiral network – a mega-internet – to unite the country. You need to cross the shattered landscape and find the president’s daughter Amelie who has been abducted by terrorists called the Homo Demens. There’s obviously more going on, as hero Sam Bridges (Norman Reedus) unearths his past, and learns about the mysterious Cliff (Mads Mikkelsen) and your ghost detecting pod-baby, BB.
