
# Farmer tells of 'heartbreaking' discovery of body of Donna Boden found in Lower Penn

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:55:37+00:00**

Author: **Oprah Flash, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/oprah-flash/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/farmer-tells-heartbreaking-discovery-body-17200219)

The heartbroken owners of Westcroft Farm have spoken out about the discovery they "will never forget" after the body a 46-year-old woman was found on their land.
Staffordshire Police has confirmed Donna Boden, from Tettenhall was found in a brook on Dirtyfoot Lane in the Lower Penn area of Wolverhampton.
Her death is being treated as unexplained at this time.
The rural road was closed for more than 24 hours as forensic officers scoured the scene for clues after the chilling discovery 1.30pm on Saturday, November 2.
It has been revealed by Westcroft Farm owners that the body was uncovered by a staff member named Tom while he carried out routine checks on the land. 
A spokesman for the farm said: "We can confirm that on Saturday afternoon we made the tragic discovery of a body in the brook that runs through our land.
"Ahead of turning some cattle out we were doing a routine check of the fences in the remote location when Tom alerted me to something in the water. I ran over and it was immediately evident that it was the body of a deceased woman.
"Tom called 999 and within ten minutes we were joined by the air ambulance, several paramedics, three fire crews, countless police cars, forensics teams and the CID.
WolverhamptonLive is the brand to trust on social media. Follow for up-to-the-minute news as well as the odd jokes and meme.
While you are on Facebook, follow Black Country Live, Black Country Crime Watch and the Black Country Bugle Facebook page and the brilliant We Love The Black Country group.
You can also follow us on Twitter and Instagram.
 
You can get the latest Black Country news sent direct to your email inbox every day.

        Sign up to it here.
      
"There began the most surreal two days in which our lane and land were closed off in order for a thorough investigation to be carried out into the circumstances of her death - which as yet remains unexplained.
"While we'll never be able to forget what happened we are both so grateful that our traumatic discovery at least means her family and friends can have some closure - Our thoughts are obviously with them at this absolutely heartbreaking time.
"Rest in peace Donna."
Westcroft Farm is a private working farm based in Lower Penn and it specialises in producing small and large bale hay, straw and haylage for horses and livestock. It also produces lamb and beef.
The investigation into Donna Boden's death is ongoing with detectives appealing for anyone with information to come forward.
Detective Inspector John Quilty, senior investigating officer, said: “We would like to hear from anyone who may have seen or heard from Donna recently, particularly, anyone who may have seen Donna between 5.30pm on Friday, November 1 and lunchtime the following day.
“Anyone with any information should message Staffordshire Police on Facebook or Twitter quoting incident number 382 of November 2, call 101 or alternatively contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.”
For all things related to Wolverhampton like our  Wolverhampton Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.        
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the  Black Country Crime Watch  Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area. 
