
# Morgan plans to play in 2020 Olympics despite pregnancy timing

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:09:53+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-soccer-worldcup-morgan-idUSKBN1XG2UQ)

United States star Alex Morgan said she plans to play in the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo despite the timing of giving birth to her first child.
Morgan is expecting a baby girl in April, approximately three months before the start of the Olympics.
“I hope to get back on the field as soon as possible,” Morgan told USA Today. “After having a healthy baby, I want to get back with the national team and look forward to playing in Tokyo.”
The 30-year-old Morgan announced she was pregnant two weeks ago on various social-media accounts, along with husband Servando Carrasco.
Morgan said she has no doubt she still will be an elite performer after having a child.
“There are so many women that have been able to come back to their respective sport after pregnancy and continue to have a successful family while playing their sport that they love at the highest level,” Morgan said. “I plan to follow in those footsteps and be one of those women who have a family and carry my daughter around as I’m going to the next city to play. And I still want to continue to enjoy the sport that I’ve been playing for all my life.”
Morgan excelled in the Women’s World Cup earlier this year, scoring six goals to help the U.S. win the title.
Overall, Morgan has 107 international goals in 169 matches.
Carrasco is a midfielder for the Los Angeles Galaxy. He and Morgan met when both were college soccer players at Cal. They married in 2014.
—Field Level Media
