
# The HP Chromebook 15t Is Down To An All-Time Low Of $369

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:57:20+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-hp-chromebook-15t-sale-deal-black-friday-amazon.html)

Amazon has dropped the price of the HP Chromebook 15t in its early Black Friday sale. Making this a really good time to pick one up.
With Black Friday being so late this year, and there being less time between Black Friday and Christmas than usual, many retailers are starting up their Pre-Black Friday sales much earlier. Including Amazon. And that means that you're going to be able to get some really good deals all month long. And in many cases, you're going to get better deals ahead of Black Friday, than on actual Black Friday. And the HP Chromebook 15t is another example of that, this is unlikely to drop any lower for Black Friday.
The HP Chromebook 15t is actually one of the better Chromebooks to pick up. It's also one of the few that comes with a 15.6-inch display, and a full numpad on the keyboard. Which that is because it is such a large display.
Advertisement
Internally on the HP Chromebook 15t, you're going to find the Intel Pentium Gold 4417U processor, with 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage.
That doesn't sound like a lot, or like this is going to be very powerful. And that's because it won't be. But with Chrome OS, you don't need an Intel Core i7 and 32GB of RAM. Chrome OS is just a browser, and Chrome is actually a lot more optimized in Chrome OS than it is on Windows or macOS. So this hardware is going to be more than sufficient.
Because of Chrome OS, battery life is pretty impressive. We're looking at around 13 hours on a single charge. Which is really good, and much better than most Windows laptops. Basically, it'll last you the entire day.
Advertisement
You can pick up the HP Chromebook 15t from Amazon by clicking here.

        HP Chromebook 15t - Amazon - $369
      
