
# Tom Watson: an MP at the heart of Labour’s key battles

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:19:22+00:00**

Author: **Rajeev Syal**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/06/tom-watson-an-mp-at-the-heart-of-labours-key-battles)

After 18 years in parliament, his exit will force many in Labour to reassess their own futures
Tom Watson had, over 18 years in parliament, forged a reputation as an immovable force of Labour politics. He was seen as a tireless political machine, who would, some MPs hoped, one day overcome the Jeremy Corbyn project which he occasionally privately mocked.
After all, it was he who was credited with being a factor in Gordon Brown’s mission to get rid of Tony Blair. He took on Rupert Murdoch in the phone-hacking scandal and played a role in the closure of the News of the World newspaper; surely he would be able to finish off the Labour leader, backbenchers would say.
Colleagues believe he has left after too many internal battles with Corbyn’s senior aides. But friends say Watson has found other interests such as public health and has a happy life outside politics. Nevertheless, his departure will force many in the party to reassess their own futures.
Born Thomas Anthony Watson in Sheffield in 1967, he was named after his great-grandfather, a Yorkshire miner. His grandmother, Elsie Watson, was a communist who stayed in the party until the collapse of the Soviet Union.
His parents were both Labour supporters. His father had various odd jobs, as a binman and bread delivery man, until he began a new career in 1970 as a social worker in Kidderminster, where Watson grew up.
In 1984, aged 17, Watson landed a job in Labour’s then headquarters in Walworth Road, south London. Long a music obsessive, he was thrilled in 1987 to help organise Red Wedge, a collaboration with musicians such as Billy Bragg and Paul Weller that sought to draw young people to the party.
