
# No pork, no parked funds in 2020 budget–House

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:09:12+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/05/no-pork-no-parked-funds-in-2020-budget-house/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
AS issues of “funds parking” were raised over the 2020 national budget, the leadership of the House of Representatives on Monday reiterated that its approved budget is “pork- and parked fund-free.”
Speaker Alan Peter Cayetano made the assurance following the claim of Sen. Panfilo Lacson that there were P20 billion worth of questionable projects in the proposed P4.1-trillion General Appropriations Act for 2020.
“I can assure all of the people, including Senator Lacson, that there will be no parked fund and no pork. We will try to eradicate corruption or avenues of corruption,” he said.
While declaring the House-approved budget bill “pork-free” and saying he only found P9.5 billion in institutional amendments made by the chamber, Lacson said there were P20-billion in “parked” funds under the budget of Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) and Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG). With this, Deputy Speaker for Finance Luis Raymund Villafuerte said the executive department should make a clarification on the parked funds. According to Villafuerte, the proposed budget bill was passed in a “highly transparent manner and bereft of pork, illegal insertions and parking of funds.”
Meanwhile, the lower chamber thanked Lacson for his “objective assessment” of the 2020 GAB that was passed swiftly last month.
“Under the guidance of Speaker Cayetano, the final version of the 2020 GAB approved by the House is in sync with the inclusive growth agenda of President Duterte. The institutional amendments were all done to ensure funding support  to the sectors that need them the most,” said Villafuerte, who represents the second district of CamSur.  Villafuerte said the only amendments made by the House to the proposed budget involved P9.5 billion in funds that were realigned to various government agencies to ensure that the government remains on top of the situation in responding to the urgent needs of various sectors. 
Among these, he said, was the agriculture sector, where P3.5 billion was allocated through the Department of Agriculture (DA) to enable it to buy more palay from farmers amid the plummeting farm-gate prices in certain parts of the country and to set up a quick-response fund.  The institutional amendments also included P800 million to the Department of Education (DepEd) for the operation of schools from Kinder to Grade 12 and establishment of model day care centers nationwide, Villafuerte said. 
He said the Philippine General Hospital (PGH) also got P500 million as part of the realignments, while the Dangerous Drugs Board (DDB) received P250 million for the maintenance and other operating expenses of community-based rehabilitation centers.
Image Credits: AP/Bullit Marquez
