
# Bitcoin Price Hits $11.6K on Argentinian Crypto Exchange

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:00:03+00:00**

Author: **Julio Gil-Pulgar**

Original: [Bitcoinist.com](https://bitcoinist.com/bitcoin-price-breaks-12k-on-argentinian-crypto-exchange/)


        Argentina’s government is imposing stricter measures to prevent access to foreign exchange reserves. As a result, Bitcoin price on one of the country’s local exchanges is currently trading at a 25 percent premium.
      
Shifting politics, economic uncertainty, and stricter forex controls have led Argentine banks to eliminate trading desk jobs. According to the Buenos Aires Times,
The economic turmoil is having a significant effect on the cryptocurrency market, namely Bitcoin price. Consequently, Argentine traders are paying over 25 percent for the main cryptocurrency. Specifically, as of this writing, Ripio, one of the main local crypto exchanges, is showing Bitcoin price at ARS 691454.97, which is around $11,600.
Bitcoin price argentina
Earlier today however, a redditor posted Bitcoin price on the exchange broke as high as $12,759 – representing a 38% premium compared to other global exchanges.
The economic situation in Argentina is becoming increasingly precarious. According to data from the World Bank, the local currency devalued significantly in 2019. Annual inflation reached over 50%, while the GDP contracted 2.5% in 2018, and another 2.5% in the first six months of 2019.
Some observers suggest that Argentina, one of the largest Latin American economies, might be heading towards another economic crisis. And, to avert the crisis, the administration of the outgoing President Macri is imposing stricter protectionist controls. The Wall Street Journal explains,
Before leaving the presidency, Macri is taking last-minute measures to stave off the looming financial crisis. One of them is hardening foreign currency restrictions. Indeed, the latest control imposed by the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) forbids Argentines to purchase more than $200 a month.
These measures are likely to be maintained by the new administration to be headed by Alberto Fernandez, who will take office on December 10, 2019. Indeed, according to La Nación, Fernandez approves of the latest economic measures that the outgoing administration is imposing.

        How do you think restrictions in Forex can impact Bitcoin’s price? Let us know your comments below.
      
_________________________________________________________________________

        Images via Shutterstock, Ripio.com, Reddit source @Moustache_Group
      
The Rundown
