
# Stand-in keepers: outfield players between the posts – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:37:49+00:00**

Author: **Steven Bloor**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/gallery/2019/nov/07/stand-in-keepers-players-between-the-posts-in-pictures)


        After Kyle Walker’s stint between the sticks in Manchester City’s Champions League match against Atalanta, we take a look at some other times that outfield players have donned goalkeepers’ gloves
      
In October 2014 Harry Kane put on the gloves after Hugo Lloris was sent off against Asteras Tripolis and immediately had trouble dealing with Jerónimo Barrales’s decidedly tame free-kick. Luckily Kane had scored a hat-trick earlier in the game, which along with Érik Lamela’s double meant Spurs won 5-1.
Photograph: Nigel French/EMPICS Sport
Chelsea’s defenders would be used to hearing John Terry shout at them but not when he’s wearing a goalkeeper’s jersey. The Blues’ captain went in goal for the end of Chelsea’s match at Reading in October 2006. He ended up there after Chelsea’s reserve keeper Carlo Cudicini was given medical treatment on the pitch after suffering a heavy collision towards the end of the match - having replaced Petr Cech in the first minute of the match. Terry managed to see out the final stages without conceding a goal, which meant Chelsea won 1-0.
Photograph: Eddie Keogh/Reuters
April 1991 saw Niall Quinn replace the Manchester City goalkeeper Tony Coton after he was sent off before half-time for fouling Derby’s Dean Saunders and concede a penalty. Quinn saved the resulting spot-kick and his early goal helped City win 2-1, a defeat that relegated Derby.
Photograph: Mirrorpix/Getty Images
This wasn’t the only time that Quinn donned the goalkeeper’s jersey after scoring. In March 1999 Quinn deputised for Sunderland’s injured keeper Thomas Sorensen for the last 20 minutes of their game at Bradford and the Black Cats held on for a 1-0 win courtesy of Quinn’s goal and goalkeeping.
Photograph: Michael Steele/EMPICS Sport
Arsenal’s stand-in goalkeeper John Radford, who replaced the injured Bob Wilson between the posts in the 68th minute of their FA Cup semi-final against Stoke, hugs the ball after making a save, watched by teammate Pat Rice (right) and Stoke’s John Ritchie (second left). Stoke were unable to find a way past Radford and the game finished 1-1. Radford, returned to his scoring duties in Arsenal’s attack for the replay, and fired in his side’s winner.
Photograph: PA Archive/PA Images
The Wimbledon midfielder Vinnie Jones celebrates making a save after replacing Paul Heald when the keeper was sent off in the 57th minute of their match against Newcastle at St James’ Park in October 1995. Jones didn’t do much further celebrating as he was beaten three times in the Magpies’ 6-1 win.
Photograph: Ross Kinnaird/Getty Images
John O’Shea put in a shift between the sticks as a makeshift keeper at White Hart Lane in February 2007 after Edwin van der sar was injured. Despite flapping at crosses, making tackles rather than saves and wearing a shirt much too big for him, Spurs were unable to beat him as Manchester United ran out 4-0 winners.
Photograph: Kieran Galvin/Shutterstock
Rio Ferdinand ended up in Manchester United’s stand-in keeper’s role in 2008 during the FA Cup quarter-final against Portsmouth. United had to replace the first-choice keeper Van der Saar at half-time, and his replacement, Tomasz Kuszczak, was shown a red card for upending Milan Baros with 12 minutes to go. Ferdinand faced the spot-kick but was beaten by Sulley Muntari’s shot, which gave Portsmouth a 1-0 victory.
Photograph: Richard Heathcote/Getty Images
Leeds United’s Lucas Radebe got to show off his goalkeeping skills after Mark Beeney was sent off in their visit to Old Trafford in April 1996. Radebe put in a virtuoso display, making impressive saves from Andy Cole, Ryan Giggs and Brian McClair. Old Trafford grew tense and frustrated, until Roy Keane slammed the ball in from the edge of the penalty area with 17 minutes to go for the only goal of the game.
Photograph: Laurence Griffiths/Empics Sport
Stoke beat Bobby Moore in their 1972 League Cup semi-final second replay. Moore was standing in for the injured West Ham goalkeeper Bobby Ferguson, who was knocked out in the 13th minute. Ferguson did return later in the first half but Stoke ran out 3- winners to earn their first ever visit to Wembley. Moore said of the experience ‘I wouldn’t like to endure this again. I don’t think I’ve ever felt so sick in my life when the ball came back over my head.I think from now on I will just carry on as sweeper Moore, and leave the goalkeeping to somebody else.’
Photograph: Trinity Mirror/Mirrorpix/Alamy
Rangers’ Rod Wallace (left) gets the last touch as he and teammate Billy Dodds (centre) secure the fourth goal against Aberdeen’s stand-in goalkeeper Robbie Winters in Rangers’ 4-1 win in the 2000 Scottish Cup Final.
Photograph: Steve Morton/EMPICS Sport
Chelsea’s David Webb collects the ball against Ipswich Town at Stamford Bridge in December 1971. Webb kept a clean sheet in a 2-0 win, and the match helped him to an unusual distinction: a defender by trade, during his time at Chelsea Webb wore every shirt from one to 12 bar No 11.
Photograph: PA Archive/PA Images
Following an injury to keeper Paddy Kenny, Sheffield United’s Phil Jagielka performed heroics, including tipping over this shot fromRobin Van Persie, as the Blades earned a memorable 1-0 win in December 2006.
Photograph: Back Page Images/Shutterstock
Even the world’s greatest players sometimes fancy a go in goal. Pele played the role of stand-in goalkeeper during a training session in 1963.
Photograph: Hulton Archive/Getty Images
