
# Keith Flint's belongings up for auction from quirky furniture to stuffed animals and nose rings

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:11:12+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/keith-flints-belongings-up-auction-20822509)

A haul of The Prodigy star Keith Flint's most prized possessions are set to go under the hammer at an auction on Thursday following his death in March.
His treasured belongings are part of a sale at Cheffins in Cambridge and include a custom-made gothic bed worth £20,000, his famous double cone septum nose piercing and a gold chest of drawers.
Many of his belongings, divided into more than 170 lots, will be offered to help settle his estate's debts.
The star owed roughly £7.3 million in debts and taxes when he died at the age of 49 at his Essex mansion earlier this year.
The sale reflects the frontman's personal taste in art and fashion, as well as his interests in music and beyond.
Among the items are MTV music awards and presentation discs from around the world, commemorating the global success of The Prodigy.
Attendees will be able to view the Firestarter hitmaker's clothing, jewellery and classic art collection at the auction.
A taxidermy hare carrying a gun is one of many eclectic items in the legendary singer's collection.
Keith's bespoke 'mythical creature' bed with supportive steel thorned branches is also up for sale as well as his famous motorbike leathers and helmet.
Flint owned motorcycle team Team Traction Control, which won three Isle of Man TT races in 2015 and competed in the British Supersport Championship.
History fans can view an amazing six-branch candelabra from the 19th century and music lovers can appreciate stardom with three MTV Video Music Awards from 1997.
One of the most eye-catching pieces from Flint's collection is a wooden head replica of the singer himself.
The statement statue represents Keith's iconic punk personality and acts as a symbol of his 1990's fame in the Brit Award-winning electronic band.
Auctioneer Martin Millard recently revealed: "The items highlight the difference between Keith’s stage persona and his private life.
"Valuing items with such provenance is almost impossible, and therefore we will not be publishing any pre-sale estimates, but expect there to be lots to cater to most budgets."
The much-loved singer was found dead at his home in Essex on March 4 this year, aged 49.
A coroner later ruled there was not enough evidence to confirm the musician took his own life.
Details from the Probate Office show the frontman had significant debts at the time.

        The Keith Flint collection will be going under the hammer on Thursday, November 7, from 6pm at the Cheffins sale room.
      
