
# Before Listeria Sets In, Mann Recalls Over 100 Of Its Vegetable Products

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bruce Y. Lee**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brucelee/2019/11/04/before-listeria-sets-in-mann-recalls-over-100-of-its-vegetable-products/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Oh Mann. This may affect your weekend plans to cover yourself in broccoli florets. Mann Packing Co., Inc. is voluntarily recalling over a hundred types of its vegetable products sold in the United States and Canada, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). They’re doing it to prevent mass Listeria or even some Listeria. The concern is that some of their products may have been contaminated with the bacteria Listeria monocytogenes.
Keep in mind that no Mann-ly vegetable-related illnesses have been reported yet. An announcement by Mann Packing said that the recall is being done “out of an abundance of caution,” a phrase commonly used in recall notices. That means you don’t necessarily have to “floret” to the hospital if you happened to have accidentally eaten one of the recalled broccoli floret products. Not all of the recalled products may have been contaminated. In fact, it not even clear how many or which products have been found to be contaminated.
Nevertheless, if you can, immediately return or discard any of the products on the recall list provided by the the Mann Packing announcement. The list included a range of different vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, brussel sprouts, green beans, cabbage, kale, and salad mixes that are sold under various Mann labels and Del Monte, HEB, HEB Organic, Hungryroot, Kroger Organic, Marketside, Margketside Organic, O Organics, Signature Farms, Sysco Imperial, Sysco Natural, and Trader Joe’s labels. So if you are buying any vegetables, compare your shopping list with the Mann’s list first.
The recall covers products that have “Best If Enjoyed By” dates from October 11, 2019, to November 16, 2019. If any products were indeed contaminated with Listeria, you could replace their labels with “Diarrhea If Enjoyed By,” because Listeria most often causes a couple days of fever, diarrhea, and feeling, well, pretty poopy in more ways than one.
If you are pregnant, such a Listeria infection may result in additional complications such as miscarriages, premature deliveries, stillbirths, and infections in the newborn. Listeria risk is a reason why pregnant women are advised not to eat soft cheeses, refrigerated pates, meat spreads, or smoked seafood.
Whether or not you are pregnant, things could get much worse if the bacteria were to get into your bloodstream or central nervous system. This is called invasive listeriosis, meaning that Listeria is not longer limited to your gut and has managed to invade other parts of your body. If Listeria reaches your nervous system, there is a good chance (20-30%) that you won’t survive, which is not good. Your likelihood of such complications would go up if you were a young kid, an older adult, or someone with a weakened immune system. I’ve already written about Listeria twice this year for Forbes. Once, when, gasp, avocados were being recalled due to possible Listeria contamination, and a second time when an outbreak occurred linked to deli meats and cheeses. So you can check these previous articles for more on what Listeria can do to you.
Although no reported illnesses have occurred yet, it can take quite a while (three to 70 days) after swallowing the bacteria for symptoms to appear. If you are wondering how to return any of the products, either contact the retailer where you bought the products or use the contact information provided by the Mann Packing announcement. If you choose to discard the product, make sure that you use an appropriate and safe way to do so, which means keeping it from anything that may eventually touch your mouth. That includes your bathtub, which is not a proper way to dispose of potentially contaminated vegetables.
