
# White House Releases National Roadmap To Combat The Opioid Crisis

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Clary Estes**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/claryestes/2019/11/07/white-house-releases-national-roadmap-to-combat-the-opioid-crisis/)

The Trump White House recently released their federal roadmap to “Stem the Opioid Crisis” in America. The report focuses primarily on research goals for the organization, but with President Trump nearing the end of his first term, the report notably feels like far too little far too late.The report itself highlights just how delayed federal government action on the crisis has been for years outlining how the annual estimated overdose deaths in America as a result of any opioid use have increase from 8,048 in 1999 to a staggering 47,092 in 2018. While the number of opioid deaths nationally has decreased somewhat in the last year, the number of deaths compared to 20 years ago is almost six times higher.
Yet, the White House report focuses more on proposed areas of research rather than decisive action. The focus on research, while understandable, and in some cases more than necessary, seemingly overlooks research that has already been done. Neither does the report analyze established conclusions for effective therapies to treat addiction or methods to curb opioid addiction before it starts, nor what factors contributed to the recent decrease in overdose deaths last year.
Additionally, there are two notable omissions in the report; analysis into big pharma’s role (such as Purdue Pharma) in catalyzing the epidemic early on through aggressive marketing of drugs like OxyContin, as well as an investigation into the effectiveness of harm reduction strategies to address the epidemic. These omissions, coupled with the reports seeming desire to start anew research that has, in part, already been done, highlight the reports inability to understand not only the core of the epidemic, but also effective pathways out of it.
The report touches lightly on the effectiveness of opioid blocking medications such as Naloxone. However, the report stops short of highlighting the effective dispersal of the drug through harm reduction campaigns nationally such as regional needle exchanges, which almost always include Narcan training, behavioral health analysis, and access to treatment for those addicted. The federal government’s resistance to harm reduction practices has long been an issue as many local health departments and nonprofits that offer services like needle exchanges. These organization are largely required to function without the assistance of the federal government and instead apply for grants to function, making their existence tentative from year to year. It should be noted that this has been a standard before the Trump administration began.
Yet, there is still a great deal of push back on harm reduction initiatives on the part of the federal government, which can notably be seen today in the fight between federal prosecutors and the nonprofit organization, Safehouse, which is working to set up the U.S.’s first supervised injection site in Philadelphia.
Similarly, while the report shows interest in understanding faith-based methods of social recovery - assuming this is largely in reference to AA and NA programs - as well as the need to reduce the social stigma of addition, it stops short yet again with distinct recommendations and steps to expand on effective social programs or behavioral health therapies to treat addiction socially on the part of both the user and the effected community.
With the Trump administration well into its 3rd year considerably more steps should have been made by now. However, this may point to a larger issue politically with regard to how government agencies are addressing the crisis - that there is little to no conversation from administration to administration about the crisis and the results of any research that has been done from year to year. This only serves to effectively restart research and reporting from administration to administration without having the time to take next steps to effective policy. If the opioid epidemic threatens to be as bipartisan an issue as many things in the US, we can be sure that it will continue to go as unaddressed as it has been for the last two decades.
