
# 'March for Irish Unity' to take place between Lifford and Strabane

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Connla Young**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/05/news/-march-for-irish-unity-to-take-place-between-lifford-and-strabane-1756485/)

SINN FÉIN and the IRSP are giving their backing to a cross-border march in support of a united Ireland.
The March for Irish Unity is due to take place between Lifford in Co Donegal and Strabane in Co Tyrone on Sunday November 24.
Organisers say speakers will include well-known musician Frances Black as well as Irish language campaigners.
Several republican groups have previously joined in debates under the ‘Yes for Unity' campaign banner, which is linked to the IRSP (Irish Republican Socialist Party).
West Tyrone Sinn Féin MP Órfhlaith Begley said: “March for Irish Unity is a local, non-party political, grassroots, anti-sectarian and peaceful initiative - aimed at mobilising collective voices for a new and united Ireland.
“Partition has failed our people and prevented our entire island from reaching its true social, economic potential.
“Sinn Féin will be supporting the March for Irish Unity.”
IRSP spokesman Michael McLaughlin said the march “is the product of a year-long engagement within the broad Irish unity community”.
“The purpose of these conversations is the realisation that there exists real fears within our communities about what the future holds,” he said.
“The IRSP will continue to engage with the broad Irish unity community to ensure that in any new and united Ireland basic working class demands are met. People are worried about healthcare, education, jobs, housing and infrastructure."
A spokesman for the March for Irish Unity said: “Using our collective people power, we can build a new, united Irish republic that cherishes all of its children equally.”
