
# Liz Phair On New Book Horror Stories, Revisiting Partnership With Brad Wood On Latest Single And Leaving Fans With A Sense Of Hope

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jim Ryan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jimryan1/2019/10/31/liz-phair-on-new-book-horror-stories-revisiting-partnership-with-brad-wood-on-latest-single-and-leaving-fans-with-a-sense-of-hope/)

As an artist, it’s her constant desire to move forward, regardless of the critical response, that has driven and defined Liz Phair’s career.Which makes the last year and a half a bit of an anomaly.
In May of 2018, Matador Records released the Girly-Sound to Guyville box set, chronicling Phair’s earliest solo recordings and her seminal 1993 debut album.
The rare look back continued this month upon the release of her memoirs by Random House. Horror Stories is Phair’s first book, with a second yet to come. Not unlike an album, the new book unfolds story-by-story as Phair boldly covers sometimes familiar ground with a fresh, honest, illuminating voice.
“Horror Stories is the dark, subconscious, sexual, introverted, watery night time - with a hard center of hope and truth and beauty to save you. And then Fairy Tales will be about the kind of lies we tell ourselves or what we think is happening - the big and glamorous,” explained Phair before a live Q&A with writer Jessica Hopper as part of Chicago Ideas Week. “Everyone’s like, ‘Where are all the rock stories?!’ They’re coming. They’re in the Fairy Tales - but in the center of that is the disquieting and unsettling truth of those events and what is lurking underneath the surface of that.”
Collaborating again with producer Brad Wood, who worked on her first three albums, and guitarist Casey Rice, who played guitar on Exile in Guyville, Phair just released the new single “Good Side,” with an album set for 2020 on her own label Orphic.
I spoke with Liz Phair backstage at Jay Pritzker Pavilion, prior to her appearances alongside Hopper during Chicago Ideas Week, about the process of looking back, the importance of honesty during turbulent times, imparting Horror Stories with hope and much more. A lightly edited transcript of our conversation follows below.

        One of the things that’s always struck me about you as an artist is that constant desire to look forward. What’s it been like, for sort of the first time in your career, looking back in this kind of depth?
      
Liz Phair: It’s really good for me. I understand now why everyone loves nostalgia so much.
I had a couple of things happen… The reissue of the Girly-Sound to Guyville via Matador which is pretty comprehensive. That basically wraps up my past. There’s not much more to say. Then, also, writing this memoir, looking back on my life. It’s really kind of moments that made me who I am today and trying to discover the path that I’ve taken because of the things that have happened to me.
Any time you go back and you focus your attention in that way, it’s illuminating. And you wish you’d done it sooner because you could’ve probably saved yourself a couple of stupid mistakes. So what it does is it just clarifies. And it makes sense out of things that you’ve been carrying around for decades but didn’t even know you were. 
For instance, I am not aware of having any sense of Christianity in my day-to-day life whatsoever.
Phair: All the time! I’m actually horrified. It’s kind of like if you go to a doctor and you get an MRI and you see what’s actually in there. The surface looks good but what’s going on inside your organs? I apparently am deeply impacted by that. Which freaks me out. I have no sense of that in my day-to-day life at all - not even in my dreams.
So… weird.

        The first thing the book says in your dedication is that you were advised to be “fearless, trust your instincts and the write the book as the maverick you’d been at the beginning of your career.” Do you feel like you stopped being that maverick? 
      
Phair: In a certain way maybe? Maybe I pulled back from going all the way there.
I’m not someone that takes to stardom per se. I can get real diva about something [as simple as] someone’s not letting me get in a door that I feel like I should be able to get in. In fact, it comes to me as a surprise sometimes the hoopla that everybody makes out of my career. Because I don’t find that productive as an artist. It doesn’t make good art. I’m an observer better than I am the observed. 

        It’s hard to tell the truth about ourselves as you say in the prologue. But you write in depth on subjects that are very personal - and you seem to do it in a truthful way. How difficult was it to embrace that idea initially and how difficult was it to maintain it once you started?
      
Phair: It was hard to come to terms with the bad things I’ve done and put them down on paper. It was easier to write the things that have happened to me. But I set myself the task of being as hard or harder on myself as any other character that I used in the book. And I wanted to just let other people judge.
Because what spurred the book idea was me judging the television - during this political time, yelling at the TV and saying, “These are bad people. These are good people.” And, inevitably, as an artist, I start to think about, “What does that mean? Am I a good person? What does it mean to be a good person? Have I actually lived up to that? How would I fare under that scrutiny?” So I kind of wanted to put it even more into the book groups.
That’s how I saw it in my mind as I was writing it: I pictured book groups discussing and arguing over whether I was a good or bad person or whether they would’ve done it. That’s sort of what I wanted to happen. I wanted to elicit conversation amongst readers as to the larger questions.

        You talk about that idea of watching TV and watching what’s unfolding in the world. And one of the things that would seem to be unfolding is kind of an attack on honesty and the notion of truth. Did that make it that much more important to show people that it’s OK to be honest and that the truth is worth embracing? That it doesn’t have to be this thing we pretend has no value or doesn’t exist… 
      
Phair: Exactly. That’s bothered me my whole life. The playacting. The facade. It’s always felt cognitively dissonant. I’ve always felt like the emperor has no clothes kid. And my book was an absolute way to have control over every element of the story and show how I look at it.
You can be good and bad. You can do the right thing and the wrong thing, almost in the same instant. You can help someone who is a bad person. You can hurt someone who is a good person. Complexity is what I’m actually fighting for I think - honesty and complexity. And empathy.

        Some of the subjects you tackle in your writing on Exile in Guyville and in the book are things or ideas or describe ways of treating people that I would’ve liked to have thought wouldn’t have still needed to be addressed 25 years later. In looking back and telling some of these stories that are 10 or 20 years old, what’s it like thinking about the world now as you do it? 
      
Phair: It sucks. I didn’t want to write “Hashtag.” At all. I resisted it until the very, very end. It was the last thing I wrote [for the book]. My editor encouraged me to do it. My publisher encouraged me to do it… And I just didn’t want to do it. For the very simple and stupid reason that it didn’t feel good to look back and think about it. I have found a place for myself in the world where I don’t have to encounter that that much. And it just came through experience - don’t go down that path, stay on this whatever it is.
But I felt like women needed to be supported.

        “Good Side” reunites you with Brad Wood. And you released it on your own label. I keep reading there’s an album due in 2020. What was it like revisiting that partnership and is it freeing creatively to be able to do that through your own label?
      
Phair: And Casey [Rice]! I think we’re getting Casey’s [guitar] tracks. I just was emailing with him. 
But absolutely. Working with Brad felt at once both completely new again and, at the same time, incredibly familiar. It was really easy for us to work together in terms of music - we understand each other’s musical language very fluidly - but I wanted to do something that sounded both unlike anything we’ve done before but also unlike anything that was exactly out there. And I think if you get deeper into the album tracks you’ll see. “Good Side” is more of a, “Hello, hello!” Then it gets weirder as you go deeper.
But it took us a while in the studio to find what our thing was going to be for this - what the cohesive sound theme was going to be. 

        You just said the word “hope.” And you talk in the book about wanting your son to have hope. I think it’s an idea that people in general in the world today grapple with. How important is it, whether it’s in your music or in the book - and having read the book, it’s there - to leave people with that sense of hope?
      
Phair: Essential. We are in a relatively, historically good position as Americans in the history of the world and in the history of society.
First of all, perspective-wise, we have the good fortune and the affluence in our country to do something about the problems we face. The horror of it is we’re not doing it. Or it’s being blocked by disagreeing parties. That’s the horror.
That’s what’s in Greta Thunberg’s eyes. She’s like, “Really?” In her mind, she’s seeing all the planets in the solar system that cannot support life - the turbulence. We don’t know how much we can mess with the system before the system starts to no longer be stable. No one really knows how that’s going to work. But it is terrifying.
I left you on a really sad note! But the good news is, look at the younger generation - they’re not going to let that happen!
I think the people who are blocking the efforts to convert to a sustainable planet are just gonna age out and die and it’s gonna be OK. Look at life!
*** Horror Stories is now available via Penguin Random House. To purchase, click HERE.
*** Liz Phair launches a residency at Largo at the Coronet in Los Angeles on Monday, November 4, 2019, discussing Horror Stories and performing each Monday in November (November 4, 11, 18 and 25). For more details, or to purchase tickets, click HERE.
*** Phair’s book tour continues through November with stops in Jersey City, NJ, Providence, RI and New Haven, CT. For the full itinerary click HERE.
*** Chicago Ideas Week continues with “The Beautiful Ones” (a conversation on Prince’s new memoir featuring Questlove) on Friday, November 1, 2019 at Smartbar in Chicago. Click HERE for the full schedule.
