
# Birmingham City back-room figure joins Championship rivals as Pep Clotet outlines transfer plans

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-lose-back-room-17181196)

Ryan Needs has left Birmingham City to join Garry Monk at Sheffield Wednesday.
Needs leaves Birmingham City as the Head of Analysis to take up a similar position at Hillsborough, BirminghamLive understands Wednesday have paid Blues compensation.
He joined Blues, having worked with Monk at Swansea and Middlesbrough, in March 2018.
However, he has not been involved in match days recently with Pete Shuttleworth, Simon Houston and Daniel Millard helping caretaker head coach Pep Clotet during games.
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
Clotet was also asked about James Beattie’s situation at his Thursday press conference but said he was not aware of any change in the first team coach’s position.
Ever since Monk was sacked in June there has been speculation that both Needs and Beattie would be reunited with the ex-Blues boss.
The former England striker has remained at the club since, though, with sources suggesting he has been redeployed away from involvement with the first team, including scouting opponents.
It was suggested  earlier this week by Sun journalist Alan Nixon , though, that Beattie’s position could be resolved shortly too.
Birmingham City have drawn up short-lists ahead of the January transfer window - including a striker.
And caretaker head coach Pep Clotet has hinted that the club are looking to provide support for Lukas Jutkiewicz.
Asked about the club’s strategy when window reopens in just over two months Clotet confirmed plans are being laid - with a view to getting business done early.
“The club is preparing for any position in case something happens. We have a wide squad at the minute so we need to be selective with what we want to bring,” Clotet said.
“I know the club is working very hard and they have already our targets selected. That for me is a pleasure to see in a club.
“The club is as committed as well as much as possible to be able to recruit as early as possible in January.
“The club has to work a lot and I am very conscious they are doing it, we shortlisted potential targets - we have done all this work but I still think there is more to come from this squad from now until Christmas.
“My personal point of view is I am very happy how the balance is in the squad and what everyone can bring.
“Obviously in the club we have spoken that we should only look for players that can be a real help, to be different."
poll loading
Cardiff win Blues win Draw
David Stockdale is a doubt for Birmingham City’s trip to Cardiff City this weekend.
Blues ’ back-up goalkeeper suffered a training ground injury making a save the day before the 2-1 win against Luton. Connal Trueman backed up Lee Camp against The Hatters - and could do so once again at Cardiff this Saturday.
“Stocky is having a scan today on this problem in the hand but I don’t think it is going to be a long one as I said last week,” said caretaker head coach Pep Clotet.
Jefferson Montero, who has not played for the last two months since being carried off ten minutes into his full debut, is back with the main group.
Clotet added: “He has started to train with the team this week, he is working a lot on his fitness as well because he was working on getting on his injury, so I hope we can have him available fair quick but obviously not Saturday.”
More on Kief here.
Birmingham City travel to Cardiff City this weekend looking for their third away win of the season and needing to break a three game losing streak on the road.
Defeats at Derby, Wigan and Leeds have been massively contrasting, cavalier at Pride Park, blunt at the DW Stadium and mostly proficient at Elland Road, but the results have remained the same.
For his part Neil Warnock will be looking to restore belief among the Bluebirds faithful who watched their side lose the south Wales derby to Swansea last time out.
Blues’ last visit to the Cardiff City stadium was in March 2018 when they were 3-0 down at half time and Carl Jenkinson was hooked at the break never to appear again as Garry Monk’s men eventually rallied to a 3-2 defeat.
We spoke to Wales Online’s Cardiff City correspondent Glen Williams for the view from the principality.
After 2018 and a summer of bread and water, Birmingham City returned to the marketplace in the most recent window and broke their transfer record once more.
Croatia under-21s captain Ivan Sunjic arrived from Dinamo Zagreb, replacing the previous holder of that record Jota , who moved on to pastures new.
Sunjic’s move was the third time Blues have paid at least £6million for a player, a fee that has conferred no guarantees.
Indeed, like every other club Blues have had some good experiences paying high price tags - and some less good ones, but to be fair none of their top ten biggest fees have been absolute duds.
Blues writer Brian Dick looks at those 10 stars who arrived at St Andrew’s flushed with hope, starting with Ivan Sunjic.
  
Pep Clotet held his weekly press conference ahead of Birmingham City's trip to Cardiff.
The caretaker head coach discussed a wide range of topics including James Beattie, Fran Villalba and Lukas Jukiewicz.
But first he was asked about the team's good form. Here's what was discussed.
 
