
# Window of illegal gains at the Bangalore Turf Club

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Ikram Khan**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/window-of-illegal-gains-at-the-bangalore-turf-club/articleshow/71844110.cms)

Lady tote operators are running a side business for punters and financiersThe ticket-booking windows at the Bangalore Turf Club seem to be a hotbed of illegal activities. Regulars to the club say the tote operators (who accept bets and punch tickets in exchange for patrons’ cash) are hand-in-glove with their supervisors and certain big punters and place bets as proxy for them (which is against BTC rules). On Thursday, Bangalore Mirror had reported that a lady tote operator’s house was raided by the police and Rs 58 lakh was recovered. This money belonged to an accountant who had cheated his company and asked a cutter (the agent who deals with bookies) to place bets on his behalf. Since the cutter used to be busy often he had parked a part of the spoils with the lady. Former committee member Mahesh Shivanand said that during his tenure he had caught a number of tote operators cheating the racing public and reported them to the stewards; he had even suggested that they should be suspended following an inquiry but no action was taken. It is also learnt that despite the rule which clearly states that tickets should be punched only after receiving the amount from the patron, many from the gang are punching big volumes of tickets without any payment. The gang offers credit betting facility to friends and regular bettors who reward them with big cuts at the end of the racing day. Even the supervisors turn a blind eye to this as they are on the take, say punters. This is not all; the cheat gang has also established contact with many local financiers who fund the tote operators on three per cent interest; in turn, the women offer many known big punters loans at 10 per cent. Many punters of the mafia who lose their bets big time early in the day are seen placing big bets towards the end of the racing day availing big loans to recoup losses. When asked what happens when a person defaults, a couple of loan seekers revealed that the big gang threatens to expose and report them to the mafia heads. The tote invigilators confirmed that the collections are always high with a particular group while the operators next to them are not even collecting 30 per cent of the volumes the ‘chor gang’ is doing. A couple of days back, Raghavendra, the tote manager, conducted raids and caught two tote operators – one with around Rs 45,000 in excess and another short of Rs 30,000 of the tickets punched (which proves that they keep punters’ monies or accept bets without taking the money in advance). Around 10 days back Rashid Byramji, a former champion trainer, who went to encash his earnings was bluntly told that it was not a winning ticket. During scrutiny, it was found that payment on the ticket had already been encashed at the same counter which proved that the woman was cheating. What rankles patrons of the club is the fact that even habitual offenders are let off with a warning and that the shortfall would be recovered in instalments from their daily wages (the tote operators earn around Rs 600 per day). But this is a joke considering the fact that the offenders collect the big amount from their contacts the next day and pay the instalments. It is time the new management committee headed by BTC chairman Vinod Sivappa takes the bull by its horns and quickly cleans out the mess as the tote is a big revenue generator for the club.
