
# 'You’re losing a significant fighting force': UCP scraps wildfire rappel program

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:17:08+00:00**

Author: **Sammy Hudes**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/politics/youre-losing-a-significant-fighting-force-ucp-scraps-wildfire-rappel-program)

A program employing more than 60 firefighters trained to rappel into areas where new wildfires have begun is being scrapped by the UCP government as it looks to “modernize” the province’s wildfire response strategy.
Former firefighters of the unit are criticizing the move, saying it will make it more difficult for crews to efficiently tackle new wildfires across the province.
The government informed members of the Wildlife Firefighter Rappel Program’s top brass on Monday morning that it was slashing the program, citing “recent budget cuts,” Postmedia has learned.
The UCP is also cutting staffing for close to 30 wildfire lookout towers and one air tanker unit.
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Devin Dreeshen said the UCP government is “making changes to align with best practices in other provinces.”
“Using lessons learned from previous years, we are modernizing our wildfire response,” he said.
“Alberta is the only province that still depends so heavily on lookout towers. While we will continue to use towers in strategic locations, we are also modernizing and using technology, such as cameras and aerial patrols to allow monitoring more efficiently.”
Using “modern technology,” Dreeshen said one person is able to monitor multiple zones remotely. He said the province plans to utilize 100 of its 126 lookout towers.
Cuts to the rappel program will affect 63 firefighters but he said members of the unit “can continue to be employed” moving forward.
“At the end of the day, fires actually get put out by boots on the ground,” said Dreeshen, adding the province will save $23 million through the changes to its wildfire program.
“That was just to find efficiencies in how we can better spend resources in fighting wildfires.”
But Jamie Parker, who spent four years in the rappel program, said losing it will make it far more difficult for the province to deal with Alberta’s growing trend of wildfires each year.
“You’re losing a significant fighting force on snuffing out fires,” he said.
The program involves firefighters jumping from helicopters into areas that have caught fire and attempting to contain the blaze to one hectare or less.
“We go to remote fire starts. We’ll action and put out those fires before they become bigger, more invasive fires such as Fort McMurray, for instance,” said Parker. “But now there’s no program where guys can even get into the ground to action those fires.”
Once dispatched, rappel crews determine the size of a fire, how fast it’s moving, its potential to increase in size and what further resources are needed.
Without rappel crews, the province will have to rely on those that require clean landing sites — something that often doesn’t exist in heavily forested areas — before they can get to work at containing the blaze, according to Parker.
He said that will push fire crews many kilometres back from a given wildfire.
“It does affect the workload of every firefighter out in the field once they’ve scrapped that entire program,” said Parker.
“I don’t know what the alternative is and I think that’s why so many people are really frustrated with this call here.”
NDP Leader Rachel Notley said the cuts “will put public safety and people’s homes at risk,” calling it a “shortsighted” move.
She said the rappel unit has played a key role in preventing further wildfires that match the scope of the 2016 event in Fort McMurray.
“It has had a tremendously important impact on keeping Albertans safe, and particularly rural Albertans safe,” Notley said.
“There are large swaths of this province that you cannot get access to by road. They are amongst the most elite of firefighters, the most highly trained, and they go in early to places that are otherwise inaccessible and start the fight against the fire early.”
But Dreeshan said firefighters are rappelled into locations in less than two per cent of wildfires across the province. He added 90 per cent of wildfire fighting has been provided by private contractors and that this practice would continue.
“We are instead prioritizing our helitack and firetack crews, which were used far more often,” said Dreeshen.
“We found a better way to be able to fight these fires is to have them 100 per cent of the time on the ground.”
The province will also be conducting a review of 2019 spring wildfire activity and conditions, wildfire preparedness and response. A report will be released next year.
Alberta’s wildfire management budget for 2019-20 is $117.6 million, with a contingency fund for emergency response of $750 million, according to the UCP.

        With files from Lisa Johnson
      
shudes@postmedia.comTwitter: @SammyHudes
