
# Wall Street closing at a record-high prompts warnings that it could be another false dawn

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:10:07+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Letts**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-03/green-shoots-emerge-global-economy-not-for-first-time/11664014)

US-China trade talks progressing well? Tick. Another strong set of US jobs data? Tick. Corporates beating earnings forecasts? Tick. The Fed's "insurance" rate cut? Tick.
With all the boxes ticked, it was little surprise Wall Street closed the week at a record high. It was the third record in five days for the benchmark S&P500.
Green shoots were popping up everywhere.
The US jobs numbers could not have been much better; unemployment still near a 50-year low, wages growth a solid 3 per cent and employment growing by 128,000 — a very solid effort given the 42,000 striking General Motors workers were deemed to be unemployed and those jobs lost.
It was certainly taken as a signal US consumers would continue to do their bit to keep the economy from grinding to a halt.
US manufacturers seem to be in a happier place too. The latest IHS survey showed a modest expansion in activity, having stalled for a couple of months mid-year.
"Tentative signs of renewed vigour are appearing in the US manufacturing sector, with the survey's production gauge having now risen for three successive months to suggest that the soft patch bottomed out in July," IHS Markit chief business economist Chris Williamson said.
In China, there was similarly positive news in manufacturing; although oddly enough the official PMI survey (focusing on large state-owned enterprises) had a more sour view on things that the private Caixin-Markit PMI survey (focusing on small to medium enterprises).
But perhaps the best news came on the trade front.
Both the US and Chinese camps were in hearty agreement that things were on track to sign the "phase 1" deal later this month.
