
# Safaricom commits to support refugees in new pact with Tent Partnership for Refugees

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:14:09+00:00**

Author: **Maya Aluel**

Original: [Capital Business](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/business/2019/11/safaricom-commits-to-support-refugees-in-new-pact-with-tent-partnership-for-refugees/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 6 – Safaricom has joined the Tent Partnership for Refugees, a global business network which mobilizes companies around the world to support refugees, with a commitment to provide a wide range of products and services to over 400,000 refugees.
      
The telecommunication company made the announcement during an event that saw the agreement signed, Safaricom CEO Michael Joseph pledged to help better lives of refugees living in Kenya by availing them with required products and technological assistance that will help improve their lives.
ADVERTISEMENT
“We are pleased to join this partnership, which seeks to restore the dignity of forcibly displaced people – who are among the most vulnerable populations in the world. Safaricom believes that no matter the circumstances, no one should be left behind. We are excited to join a partnership that is bridging this gap by addressing challenges faced by the refugees,” said Michael Joseph.
The Tent Partnership for Refugees mobilizes the business community to improve the lives and livelihoods of over 25 million refugees who have been forcibly displaced from their home countries.
It believes that companies are uniquely positioned to alleviate the global refugee crisis by mobilizing their networks, resources, innovation, and entrepreneurship to integrate refugees into the global economy.
Tent was launched in 2016 and has since attracted support from over 130 global companies.
Safaricom previous work with Vodafone, UNHCR, and Huawei was to help bring technology to classrooms in refugee camps through the Instant Network School program.
The Telecommunication Company is exploring the use of direct cash transfer and plans to offer services such as e-voucher product that allows refugees to purchase food and other key items, while also helping to grow the local economy.
Gideon Maltz, Executive Director at the Tent Partnership for Refugees, said, “We’re thrilled that Safaricom has joined Tent. Safaricom is already offering a range of products and services for refugees in Kenya – joining Tent will mean building on this great work.”
Tent encourages Companies to make commitments to help refugees as well as shares best practice of companies’ experiences to support the economic integration of refugees. 
