
# Loki Series Will Tie Into Doctor Strange Sequel

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:37:37+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471281-loki-series-will-tie-into-doctor-strange-sequel)

Marvel Studios is producing a number of original shows for Disney+, and they are going to have deeper ties with the MCU than previous Marvel TV shows. Kevin Feige recently chatted with Bloomberg about how deeply the shows will connect. And there’s one particular connection fans may not have seen coming.
The reporter explained, “If you want to understand everything in future movies, he says, you’ll probably need a Disney+ subscription because events from the new shows will factor into forthcoming films such as Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness. The Scarlet Witch will be a key character in that movie, and Feige points out that the Loki series will tie in, too. ‘I’m not sure we’ve actually acknowledged that before,’ he says. ‘But it does.’”
There’s a possibility that Loki’s vanishing with the Tesseract in Avengers: Endgame might set up branching timeline within the MCU. However, story details are scarce for that series.
There’s also Scarlet Witch’s angle. WandaVision looks to reunite her with Vision. Feige has previously said that show will have Multiverse implications as well.
The first of the new Marvel shows, The Falcon and the Winter Soldier, is currently in production. It will debut sometime in fall 2020. Other shows, including Loki, WandaVision and Hawkeye, will follow in 2021.
What do you think about this surprising tie-in with the Marvel Cinematic Universe? Let us know in the comments below!

        Recommended Reading: 
        
          Loki: Agent of Asgard – The Complete Collection
        
      

        We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
      
