
# Reports | IPL 2020 to implement specialized extra umpire only to check no-ball

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:27:52+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/reports-ipl-2020-to-implement-specialized-extra-umpire-only-to-check-no-ball?utm_medium=rss)


        The IPL governing council, in a meeting on Tuesday, have reportedly decided to implement a specialized extra umpire who would only monitor no-balls in the upcoming 2020 edition. The decisive meeting was held at the BCCI headquarters under the supervision of Brijesh Patel, with all council members.
      
Former India cricketer Brijesh Patel chaired the meeting which was held on Tuesday to decide on various factors concerning the upcoming 2020 season of the marquee T20 league. Owing to the infamous umpiring errors that occurred in the previous season of the IPL, the BCCI decided to take one step forward as far as the no-balls are concerned. Last year, Lasith Malinga’s unmonitored no-ball against RCB became one of the biggest talking points of the season and now the board has decided to appoint an extra umpire for each game to monitor just no balls. 
According to one of the members of the Governing Council, as a major development in the T20 league this step will be implemented eyeing to reduce the errors. “There will be a specialised umpire for this, who will work in co-ordination with the on-field umpires and the third umpire. This is an effort to reduce errors,” the council member was quoted as saying by Sportstar.
The idea is new to the system, so it will be implemented in domestic tournaments before and then be introduced in the IPL. “It can be tried out in any tournament, even in Ranji Trophy. We will discuss it further and see how it goes,” he added.
