
# Trash strewn across Willenhall churchyard days before Remembrance Day

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:22:14+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Regen, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/charlotte-regen/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/trash-strewn-across-willenhall-churchyard-17185408)

Volunteers have been left devastated after they found unwanted belongings fly tipped across graves in a Walsall churchyard.
Trash has been strewn around a churchyard on Walsall Street Willenhall, on Thursday, October 31.
Volunteers, who tend to the graves so families can visit their loved ones, were disgusted to find the mess left behind.
Shocking pictures and footage obtained by Black Country Live show the clothes plastered across the graves, churchyard and neighbouring alleyway.
Items such as children's clothing, shoes and hair extensions were abandoned and thrown over walls and fences.
Sadie Pritchard Sargeant, who works hard to keep the churchyard looking presentable, told Black Country Live: "It’s heartbreaking as we are working so hard on the church yard to get the yard ready for Remembrance Day and to maintain the yard in general.
"Throughout the years the maintenance has been hard to uptake as it’s a big area and this yesterday stopped me from doing any graves that I was there to do."
Speaking about where she thinks the clothes came from, Sadie said: "It looks as though it’s been dumped by one party then another has come along, seen it and rummaged through it and thrown the stuff every where as the bags where all torn open.
If you're from Walsall, you simply have to follow the Walsall Advertiser Facebook page.
While you are on Facebook, follow Black Country Live, Black Country Crime Watch and the Black Country Bugle Facebook page and the brilliant We Love The Black Country group.
Then get over to Twitter and follow the Advertiser there too.
Then Instagram and you are done!
 
You can get the latest Black Country news sent direct to your email inbox every day.

        Sign up to it here.
      
 
"They have been taken by the council. I did think at first they could have been donated, but there was a lot of stained clothes amongst them and I had to wear gloves to bag them as you can’t be sure what’s amongst them."
The 36-year-old added: "We are very appreciative of any help we can get, we always need volunteers to help, we do have a few people chipping in now but it’s such a big piece of land and with us going on our days off etc we’re limited to how much we can get covered.
"Everyone who’s helping comes down as often as they can. I get down once a week but hopefully weather permitting next week it will be more.
"We really need to get as much done as possible for Remembrance Day, but even after that the maintenance needs upkeep all year round.
"If we can get more people to just do a couple hours a week it will all add up."
Black Country Live has asked Walsall Council press office for a statement.
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the  Black Country Crime Watch  Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.    
Keep up-to-date with all things Walsall on our  Walsall Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.
