
# Nintendo Switch Pro controller gets native support in Android 10

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:11:05+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/nintendo-switch-pro-controller-gets-native-support-android-10?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
These days, smartphones have come a long way from just making calls or playing the occasional game of Angry Birds. They now feature very powerful processors and gobs of RAM, making them perfect portable gaming machines. We even have dedicated gaming phones, such as the ASUS ROG Phone II and the Razer Phone 2 which can be had for as little as $400 right now. Unfortunately, one downside has been the on-screen controls, which cannot match the tactile feel and responsiveness of a dedicated gaming controller.
The good news is that when Android 10 launched, it brought with it native controller support for some of today's most popular gaming consoles — including the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch Joy-Cons. However, one you might not have heard about was the Nintendo Switch Pro controller.
Well, it was recently discovered that it had been fully key-mapped in Android 10. Previously, pairing the Switch Pro Controller wouldn't work properly due to an incomplete key mapping of the gamepad. Now that the key mapping has been updated, you can finally pair your Switch Pro controller and use it to play games on your Android 10 phone.
To get started, first disconnect the Pro controller from your Switch, press the button near the USB-C charging port to enter pairing mode, and now locate the device in the Bluetooth pairing menu on your Android 10 device. According to Android Police, the controller doesn't appear to work via a wired connection, making Bluetooth the way to go if you want to use it.
Now, you should be all set and ready to game using a real controller instead of awkward on-screen controls. This should be a huge improvement when taking on challengers in games like Fortnite or PUBG. 
Game like a pro
If the tiny Joy-Cons aren't your thing then, you'll want to grab the larger Nintendo Switch Pro controller. It comes with all the same features of the Joy-Cons, including motion controls, HD rumble, and even built-in support for amiibos.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Where's my battery? OnePlus phone batteries are being decimated by WhatsApp OnePlus users running Android 9 and 10 are seeing as much as 40% of their battery drained by WhatsApp.
      

        Smooth as butter New rumor says the OnePlus 8 Pro will have a 120Hz display According to a new rumor, the OnePlus 8 Pro will feature a 120Hz Fluid AMOLED display.
      

        Your carrier sucks CCMI means profits and that's why carriers are doing it Carriers know that done right, RCS offers new business opportunities. We just have a different definition of right than carriers do.
      

        No matter your taste, your phone needs a case Protect your Galaxy Note 10+ with these great discounted cases The Galaxy Note 10+ is a whole lot of power and premium design in your hand, and while you may want to show off its beautiful gradient back to the world, this phone needs a case. Get a good one to protect your Note 10+.
      
