
# Dressing The Queen: Royal Behind-The-Scene Secrets Revealed By Her Majesty’s Dresser

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Cecilia Rodriguez**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ceciliarodriguez/2019/11/05/dressing-the-queen-royal-behind-the-scene-secrets-revealed-by-her-majestys-dresser/)

Sometimes, the Queen of Britain, Her Royal Majesty Elizabeth II, needs to change clothes up to five times a day – in the case of big celebrations, for example. And not simply the dress she’s wearing but the shoes, gloves, jewelry, medals and other accessories and, most important, her hats.After all, the colors she chooses to wear, the feathers or the flowers in her hats and any of her ensembles have fascinated crowds around the world for decades.
Today, at 93 years old, there is no discussion in the worlds of fashion, politics or diplomacy that in her inimitable style, the queen transmits a perfect balance between glamor and majesty and that her royal garments play a key role in the function she represents, @RoyalFamily.
They give her “an air of gravity, respectability and reason, all mixed with humor in half-tone,” according to France’s Le Point.
The essential task of keeping that careful balance rests in the hands of Angela Kelly, the official dresser, who for more than 25 years has been in charge of choosing Her Majesty’s outfits, generally months in advance according to her agenda.
As a result she’s developed a special relationship with the sovereign that includes among other rituals wearing the queen’s new shoes to soften them and avoid any royal discomfort (they share the same size).
“The Queen has very little time to herself and not time to wear in her own shoes, and as we share the same shoe size it makes the most sense this way,” Kelly writes.
"Madame Image" is in charge not only of fashion, but of the choice of clothes during the posing sessions for portraits and major events in the United Kingdom as well as abroad. She offers several styles of outfits to the queen, months in advance, then two fittings. Together, they choose fabrics, silks and accessories.
That and many other ‘secrets’ and amusing confidences appear throughout the dresser’s new book, The Other Side of the Coin: The Queen, the Dresser and the Wardrobe.
Given the strict rules and security measures that apply in the British court around the publication of books by employees or former employees of the crown, particularly after some embarrassing unauthorized publications, it’s an exceptional show of confidence by the monarch who granted special permission to her senior dressmaker to publish the ‘tell-all’ book about their relationship.
Angela Kelly began her post in 1994 as the monarch's senior dresser before becoming her Majesty's Personal Advisor and Curator (0f The Queen’s Jewellery, Insignias and Wardrobe) and In-house Designer, making her the first person in history to hold the title. 
“Years of good and loyal service, reciprocal affection and unflinching discretion bind the Sovereign to her first collaborator,” writes Le Point. “The latter has access to the monarch several times a day and is one of the few collaborators to be admitted to the private apartments where the fitting takes place.”
For starters, Kelly clarifies that her official title, ‘The Queen's Dresser’, is misleading since generally “the queen dresses alone.” It also establishes that Elizabeth II isn’t interested in fashion and, given her position, doesn’t go window shopping.
Equally surprising, since Queen Elizabeth is one of the most photographed people on Earth, is that she does her own makeup except once a year for her televised Christmas speech, when a professional is hired to do it.
"The only other thing left for me to do is to arrange for the makeup artist, Marilyn Widdess, to be there on the day of filming,” Kelly writes. “You might be surprised to know that this is the only occasion throughout the year when Her Majesty does not do her own makeup."
“Sharing never-before-seen photographs — many from Angela's own private collection — and charming anecdotes of their time spent together, this revealing book provides memorable insights into what it's like to work closely with The Queen, to curate her wardrobe and to discover a true and lasting connection along the way," the book's synopsis reads.
Without divulging any political information about the queen’s positions or any personal gossip, the book is full of authoritative, respectful and complacent tidbits like the one about the queen’s participation of the famous skit alongside Daniel Craig's James Bond where she even delivers a line.
In the famous video, Queen Elizabeth II in person greets Agent 007, followed closely by three royal of her corgis at Buckingham Palace. The scene was shot in secrecy before being broadcast for the opening of the 2012 London Olympics, with the famous secret agent flying to escort the queen.
"She was very amused by the idea and agreed immediately. I asked then if she would like a speaking part. Without hesitation, Her Majesty replied: 'Of course I must say something. After all, he is coming to rescue me'," Ms Kelly recalls. "I asked whether she would like to say: 'Good evening, James,' or: 'Good evening, Mr Bond,' and she chose the latter, knowing the Bond films. Within minutes, I was…delivering the good news to [director Danny Boyle] - I think he almost fell off his chair when I said that the Queen's only stipulation was that she could deliver that iconic line: 'Good evening, Mr Bond.'"
Another surprising revelation in the book is that the monarch prefers a ‘modest’ style, living in only six private rooms within the vast Buckingham Place, her official residence, and that only family members are the men allowed in the private rooms.  She occupy her bedroom; her private sitting room; her dressing room and bathroom; the Audience Room and the Empire Room.  
“It still astonishes me that some former members of staff are prone to making suggestions and sharing supposed details about the Queen's private rooms, when they actually have no insight whatsoever,'” Kelly writes.  'So, do bear this in mind the next time you hear any supposed details about Her Majesty's private rooms. There will always be people who will say anything for attention.'
Neutrality, as with so many state decisions, is key to the royal wardrobe. Bright colors, bold without being extravagant, floral motifs highlighting the peach complexion of the queen’s skin and the blue of her eyes, hats that are showy but not wide to cover her face or too complex to hinder her movements.
The point is always to allow the crowd to recognize her.
There are some forbidden colors such as grey that are considered too bland. Black is reserved for mourning.
According to Kelly, the Queen's annual appearance at Royal Ascot, a much-watched affair, is not just about the competing horses as it is about the betting on the color of the monarch's hats. Learning that such a bet had been placed one year, Kelly writes that she had a meeting “with the owner of Paddy Power at which we agreed that betting on the color of the Queen's hat would be closed at a certain time to avoid any cheating, but allowed people to carry on guessing and perhaps even win a bit of money."
According to the book, royal protocol is not as strict as people believe. There was a major controversy when former First Lady Michelle Obama wrapped her arm around the queen during a state visit in 2009, which many etiquette experts saw as a breach of royal protocol, although the queen returned the gesture with affection.
"In reality, it was a natural instinct for the Queen to show affection and respect for another great woman, and really there is no protocol that must be adhered to," she writes. "Contrary to what many people believe, there are no strict rules that must be followed when one is introduced to The Queen. You may wish, or not wish, to curtsey. But on the whole, most people do curtsey or bow out of respect.”
"Some women tend to find that they instinctively curtsey, whereas men tend to bow, but there is no golden rule, even for the most long-standing members of the Royal Household.
"Each morning and evening, I greet Her Majesty with a curtsey, but because I see her so often, I don't repeat the gesture throughout the day unless we are out in public on Tour."

        Angela Kelly, profession " habilleuse " de Sa MajestéLe Point Marc Roche
      

        Five royal secrets revealed by the Queen's dresserBBC News
      

        Queen Elizabeth's Dresser Shares the Prank That Made the Monarch Tell Her: 'You're Sacked!'PEOPLE.com
      

        The Queen only uses SIX of Buckingham Palace's 775 rooms as she is 'very modest', says royal dressmakerThe Sun Becky Pemberton
      
Angela Kelly entretient depuis plus de quinze ans une relation privilégiée avec la reine : elle décide de ses tenues des mois à l'avance en fonction de son agenda et a créé certains rituels en sa compagnie. Ainsi, la couturière raconte comment, pour éviter tout inconfort, elle porte ses chaussures avant la reine afin qu'elle s'adapte à son pied. Par chance, toutes deux ont la même pointure. « Comme les médias l'ont rapporté, un employé porte les chaussures de Sa Majesté pour s'assurer qu'elles sont confortables et qu'elle est prête à partir... Eh oui, je suis cet employé. »
