
# Prosecution objects to High Court hearing Sosma constitutional challenge

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:20:03+00:00**

Author: **Hafiz Yatim**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/prosecution-objects-high-court-hearing-sosma-constitutional-challenge)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6): The prosecution in Melaka state executive council member G Saminathan's suit involving a Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012 (Sosma) charge has today objected to his bid to challenge the constitutionality of Section 13(2) of Sosma.
Deputy public prosecutor (DPP) Mohd Izhanuddin Alias, who appeared together with fellow DPP Muhamad Iskandar Ahmad, questioned the High Court's jurisdiction to hear the matter as the prosecution argued that it should be before the Federal Court.
Citing the decision in Transmile Group Bhd founder and former chief executive officer Gan Boon Aun's case, Izhanuddin said those wanting to challenge the constitutionality of a piece of legislation especially a terrorist prevention act must do so at the Federal Court.
"The High Court is not a competent forum to hear the application," he said.
Furthermore, the prosecution argued there was no question of law posed to the High Court in wanting to challenge the legislation.
However, Ramkarpal Singh, who appeared together with Sangeet Kaur Deo and Harshaan Muhammad Zamani for Saminathan, argued that the High Court has jurisdiction to hear the challenge as it is not necessary for the case be brought up to the apex court.
Citing the Kim Po and the Alma Nudo cases decided by the Federal Court, Ramkarpal said the High Court has jurisdiction to hear constitutional challenges.
"In challenges to validity of a legislation, the High Court is competent to hear such challenges. We are in the right court without the need of further affidavits to be submitted," he said.
"I am prepared to submit on this matter even next week as I did not know prior to this there would be objections made," added the lawyer.
Ramkarpal said the challenge here on Section 13(2) of Sosma is not made under Article 4(3) or 4(4) of the Federal Constitution.
He added that they are even prepared to draft the question of law to be decided, namely on the constitutionality of Section 13(2) of Sosma.
Section 13(2) states there should be no bail for a person who had been charged with Sosma offences with the exception of those below 18 years of age, except for those who have ailments or are women.
Following this Justice Mohd Nazlan Mohd Ghazali said he was prepared to hear the issue of jurisdiction and questions on the constitutionality of the said section next week.
"Hence, the court would hear both arguments on Wednesday (Nov 13). Parties are to submit their written submission by Tuesday," he said.
Also present in court were Communications and Multimedia Minister Gobind Singh Deo; DAP veteran leader Lim Kit Siang, who is also Iskandar Puteri MP; Kota Melaka MP Khoo Poay Tiong; and Saminathan's family members, who were in tears.
Saminathan, 34, who is also Gadek assemblyperson, is charged with knowingly giving support to terrorist group Liberation of Tigers of Tamil Elam through his Facebook account.
He and 11 others are charged under Sosma and are currently detained. Yesterday, it was reported that a habeas corpus application by five of the detainees was dismissed by High Court Justice Datuk Ahmad Shahrir Mohd Salleh.
