
# After making his debut in Hindi and Tamil, the actor JK returns home for a soft role

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Shyam Prasad S**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/south-masala/after-making-his-debut-in-hindi-and-tamil-the-actor-jk-returns-home-for-a-soft-role/articleshow/71844772.cms)

After making his debut in Hindi and Tamil, the actor returns home for a soft role JK (Karthik Jayaram) is back in Sandalwood after spending some months shooting for his Bollywood and Kollywood debuts. His Hindi film Pushpa I Hate Tears and Tamil film Maaligai are now complete. He returns to Sandalwood with Neere directed by debutant Sricharan. No, Neere is not an action film. "Everyone keeps telling me I should do a mass subject film, an action film or do the role of a super villain. I continue to be called Ravan everywhere. I also want to do subjects where I can perform in emotional roles. Neere is one such film. The homework and planning of the newcomers was good. It is a very emotional subject and I could connect it with my own memories," says JK about his new film. He played Ravan in a Hindi serial a few years ago which made him a sensation. JK was last seen in Kannada in the back-to-back Aa Karala Ratri and Puta 109. "I tried to do that role in Aa Karala Ratri in a subtle manner. Those who saw the film howeve expected me to be the villain till the end. So it is good I give aggressive roles a small break," he says. The two films took him to international film festivals. "My aggressive, action roles did not take me. But organisers of international film festivals called me there after watching Puta 109," he says. JK will also be seen doing a webfilm co-starring with Mukul Dev next and has also signed up a couple of web-series. The last few months saw JK make a sensational body transformation which he regularly showcased online. It was for a film on bodybuilding that was to start in June. But it has been postponed for a while. "I lost 13 kilograms in 12 weeks and put on the same mass of muscles in the next four weeks. Though the film is not happening for the time-being, I am happy to have undergone the transformation," he says.
