
# Mike Ashley spent millions on private flights as profits fell 80%

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:57:09+00:00**

Author: **Sean Farrell**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2019/nov/01/mike-ashley-spent-millions-private-jet-helicopter-flights-profits-fell-billionaire)


        Cost of billionaire’s love of commuting by helicopter or jet revealed in annual accounts
      
Mike Ashley spent millions of pounds on flights by helicopter and private jet as his company’s annual profit fell 80%, the latest accounts show.
The Sports Direct owner’s family also received more than £100,000 of hospitality at Newcastle United, Ashley’s football club.
Ashley’s spending was revealed in the annual accounts for Mash Holdings, through which the billionaire owns his businesses.
Mash’s revenue rose to £3.5bn in the year to April 2018 from £3.3bn a year earlier. But profit fell to £20.9m from £102m as profit on the sale of Dunlop and JD Sports shares in 2017 was not repeated.
Ashley also suffered a £76m writedown on his investment in Debenhams. Ashley has failed in his attempts to overturn a compulsory voluntary arrangement at Debenhams after the department store chain went into administration, wiping out the near 30% stake owned by Sports Direct.
The latest accounts show Ashley’s spending on “use of the company jet and helicopter” tripled to £2.1m and his family were treated to £113,000 of matchday hospitality at Newcastle, up from £78,000 a year earlier.
Ashley has defended his use of the plane and helicopter, which he has boarded to leave Sports Direct annual meetings in the past.
“I do fly to work by helicopter,’ he told the BBC three years ago. “I don’t get paid a salary but I do like to go by private plane. It saves a lot of time and is very efficient.”
The accounts set out Ashley’s retail spending spree during the year, including the purchases of House of Fraser for £90m, Evans Cycles for £8m, Jack Wills for £12.8m and a shopping park in Hertfordshire for £25.4m.
Ashley’s splurge on retail assets has raised eyebrows with some analysts questioning his moves to buy up ailing businesses with the high street under pressure. The accounts for the current year are likely to be hit by the disastrous performance of House of Fraser, which he revealed was losing £1m a week.
