
# Jimmy White knows emotional Ronnie O'Sullivan clash could be final time they ever meet

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:32:22+00:00**

Author: **Hector Nunns**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/snooker/jimmy-white-knows-emotional-ronnie-20831178)

Jimmy White knows his emotional clash with Ronnie O’Sullivan could be the last time they meet on the big stage.
The Whirlwind knew he had seen a special talent when being blown away 5-1 by a then 16-year-old tour rookie 27 years ago.
Kindred snooker spirits with a need to entertain the crowd, White’s desire for playing to the gallery cost him titles.
But five-time world champion O’Sullivan, 43, has managed both – breaking almost all the game’s major records.
The mantle of ‘People’s Champion’ inherited by White, now 57, from the late and great Alex Higgins was duly passed on to O’Sullivan.
And a sell-out crowd will turn up today at Coventry’s Ricoh Arena to salute their heroes at a Champion of Champions last-16 meeting.
White, in the field thanks to his World Seniors win, famously lost all six of his world championship finals – but that overshadowed a glittering career with many titles.
He said: “You never know how many more of these really big occasions against Ronnie there could be in a major tournament.
“I am lucky I get to play him in exhibitions - but this is different. This is the big time again, and why I still practice. To be able to enjoy and absorb that atmosphere.
“I always fancied I would be drawn against Ronnie, it just seemed like fate might take a hand.
“I was watching the video of my ‘This Is Your Life’ the other day with some people. And I spotted Ronnie on the stage at 17 maybe, I had forgotten he was there.
“That was a nice memory. I have always been his biggest fan, but he knows I will be really trying to win on Thursday.
“I remember vividly him beating me 5-1 in Blackpool just after he turned pro. I said to my driver on the way home ‘That is an absolute breath of fresh air for snooker’.
“We earned any fans with the way we play. And I hope there will be a few mums and dads telling their kids ‘Jimmy White can play a bit too – Ronnie’s no certainty’!
“I hope I helped Ronnie. I know sometimes I played to the crowd, and it did cost me. I told him at an early age that to win you can’t always do that.
“But he has a naturally crowd-pleasing style anyway, allied to a real will to win that isn’t always highlighted.”
O’Sullivan will be the hot favourite, and holds an incredible record at the event with three titles and two more final appearances.
He has often struggled with the tour treadmill, and so is in awe of White’s continued enthusiasm and lack of bitterness over his career setbacks.
O’Sullivan said: “He is just a very optimistic guy and I wish I could keep that sort of attitude in the future because if I could, I would play a lot longer than I expect to.
“He is not bitter about whatever scars he has and blows the sport has dealt him. He just gets on with it. And that is all about a genuine love for the game.
“I remember so many of both the games between us – he beat me a couple of times at the Masters – and his other big Crucible finals.
“The match that left me gobsmacked as a kid was his Mercantile Credit Classic 1986 final against Cliff Thorburn, I was only 10.
“It was 12-12, he needed a snooker on pink in the decider, got it, then potted pink and black and lifted the trophy. What a way to win.
“I am surprised he is still playing if I am honest – but he just loves it still, doesn’t he? Not me, I’d have been out the door a long time ago in his position.”
