
# Deals Spotlight: eBay Discounting Apple Watch Series 5 Today Only ($20 Off), Will Offer New Sale Every Friday in November

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:43:05+00:00**

Author: **Mitchel Broussard**

Original: [MacRumors](https://www.macrumors.com/2019/11/01/deals-spotlight-ebay-apple-watch/)

eBay today has kicked off its new pre-Black Friday sale event, which will see select products discounted every Friday for the month of November and into December. This will lead up to Black Friday on November 29, and include sales on Apple Watch Series 5, Nintendo Switch Lite, Pokémon Sword and Shield, iPhone 11, and more.
Note: MacRumors is an affiliate partner with eBay. When you click a link and make a purchase, we may receive a small payment, which helps us keep the site running. The event is beginning with a $20 discount on the Apple Watch Series 5, which includes savings on 40mm GPS models. During the sale, you can get this version of the Apple Watch Series 5 for $379, down from $399, including multiple case and band color options. Below we've listed the full slate of every product going on sale during eBay's new event, which hit at 12 p.m. ET on the specified days. In terms of Apple products, the next major deal will be on November 22 for an unlocked iPhone 11.
eBay said that every Friday drop will include free shipping. All of this month's tech-related offers can be found on eBay's Tech Deals landing page. Our full Deals Roundup is keeping track of all of the latest sales as we head into the holidays. You can also visit our Black Friday Roundup to start preparing for the shopping holiday.
