
# Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa doesn’t want mobiles at home, office

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-doesnt-want-mobiles-at-home-office/articleshow/71930557.cms)

On a day that the Supreme Court said that it would consider the fresh audio clip in which Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is purportedly referring to 17 rebel Cong-JD(S) MLAs, who had been disqualified, the CM has decided to ban mobiles in his offices and residences. On Tuesday, a three-judge bench headed by Justice NV Ramana said since the issue has been brought to its notice the apex court would consider it. However, the bench did not specify whether it would take on record the audio clip. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa has made it clear that those wishing to meet him either at his office in Vidhana Soudha or at home office ‘Krishna’ has to deposit the phone with the staff there before meeting him. The rule also applies to his private residence in Dollar Colony and whenever he shifts to the official bungalow ‘Cauvery’. Yediyurappa is also considering to install jammers to prevent anyone from clandestinely recording his conversation or videographing proceedings. Speaker of the Legislative Assembly has already banned legislators from bringing mobiles into the Assembly and the rule has also been extended to media persons from the previous session. In the past, Yediyurappa had to face an embarrassment for attempting Operation Lots with son of a JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandakoor. The MLA’s son had secretly recorded his conversation with Yediyurappa. 100-days in office: BSY promises to change State’s face with development in next 100 days In other news, while Interacting with the media on completing 100-days in office, the CM said that his government believed in development mantra. “In the first 100-days, the government ensured to take up development works despite devastating natural calamities,’’ he said stressing that he would root out corruption. Releasing a booklet highlighting achievements of his government in 100-days, Yediyurappa said that priority would be giving to ensure adequate water supply to farmers, providing opportunities to unemployed youth.
