
# Black Friday 2019 Ads: Costco’s Best Deals Leak

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/10/31/black-friday-2019-ads-costco-best-deals-leak-apple-macbook-samsung-galaxy-s10-note10-microsoft-xbox-one-x-lg-oled-tv-deals/)

Costco Black Friday 2019 deals have just leaked and the good news is they are a massive upgrade on the weak deals the store offered last year. There’s a lot to get excited about so here is my selection of the Costco’s Best Black Friday deals on smartphones, wearables, tablets, consoles and TVs. Note: you can find my Black Friday 2019 guides for Walmart (here), Target (here), Best Buy (here), Costco (here), Amazon (here), Apple (here) and Samsung (here). For daily updates, bookmark my page.  

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
Leaked by BestBlackFriday, Costco’s 32-page Black Friday 2019 ad is far bigger than the 8-page ad we saw in 2018 and these are the best deals you should pay close attention to:

        Costco Black Friday Smartphone, Tablet Deals
      

        Costco Black Friday Xbox Deals
      

        Costco Black Friday Laptop Deals
      

        Costco Black Friday TV Deals
      

        Walmart Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
The standout deals for me are on Samsung’s flagship Galaxy smartphones. Both the direct discounts and Costco voucher deals are likely the biggest gift vouchers you’ll see this Black Friday. Put these straight to the top of your Black Friday shopping list. 
Also impressing are the Xbox One X LucidSound bundle and the LG’s OLED TV offers because the C9 and B9 are two of the best TVs in the world right now. The Surface Pro 7 discounts are also unlikely to be beaten this year on such a new model, while the Dell XPS 15 deal is fantastic. There are some solid iMac and MacBook deals as well. 
As for the bad news, as I predicted, is Costco does not have any iPhone or Nintendo Switch deals and my optimistic hopes of a Sony PS4 Pro sale was just that, optimistic. The Apple Watch is also missing and while Costco is offering a $10 discount on AirPods, this is dwarfed by Amazon’s superb AirPods sale which is live now. 
I will be extensively tracking Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2019 deals and publishing the best offers daily, so be sure to bookmark my page.
___

        More On Forbes
      
