
# From a media-shy person to a charmer: Here's how Ibrahim Ali Khan has transformed over the years

Published at: **2019-11-03T01:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/from-a-media-shy-person-to-a-charmer-heres-how-ibrahim-ali-khan-has-transformed-over-the-years/articleshow/71855151.cms)

Ibrahim Ali Khan's latest photoshoot with his elder sister Sara Ali Khan has put him on the forefront and his unseen side is now known to all. From a media-shy person to a charmer flaunting his well-toned body in HELLO! India magazine photoshoot, Ibrahim's transformation has been phenomenal.
Saif Ali Khan and Amrita Singh son Ibrahim has not only inherited good looks from his parents but also the elegance and poise. While the young starlet is currently pursuing his studies at the moment, these pictures prove that he is ready to make a grand debut in Bollywood.
While Saif has openly admitted of his son Ibrahim being more better looking than him and would like if he too becomes an actor in future after completing his graduation, Sara had once revealed an incident where her brother's monologue had left her speechless as he was able to communicate with his emotive eyes.
Ibrahim, on the other hand, has been away from all the limelight and prefers to spend most of his time with his family and his group of friends. He even shares a good camaraderie with Akshay Kumar's son Aarav and the duo are spotted together on several occasions as well.

        Picture Courtesy: HELLO! India Instagram
      
