
# Come Together for One Night Only: The Beatles Tribute

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:57:28+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts KL**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/kl/lifestyle/come-together-for-one-night-only-the-beatles-tribute/)

The Bee’s One Night Only tribute night series returns on Sunday, 24 November, this time paying homage to the English rock band that launched a thousand screams (and bowl haircuts) — The Beatles! The One Night Only series dedicates a month to celebrate legends of the past, performed by a collective of Malaysian musicians. This edition promises lots of singalong and dancing fun to iconic tunes from the band whose musical contribution was essential to the evolution of pop music, and who remains the inspiration of so many musicians today. 
So lend us your ears and let’s Come Together after A Hard Day’s Night to bring back Yesterday, because you don’t need to go Across The Universe to Get Back those strawberry feels forever. (See what we did there?) Doors open at 7pm!
Tables are limited, so non-members interested to attend can make reservations via Facebook or Whatsapp at +60 17-565 4233.
Want to get your Beatlemania on? We have 2 pairs of tickets (which includes 1 bucket of beer each) to this one night only event for two lucky COCO+ members! 
How to win, you ask? To be eligible, all you have to do is join us and become a COCO+ member. COCO+ members get exclusive access to all sorts of events on top of regular perks like freebies and giveaways. It also comes with unlimited access to all the juicy goodness of Coconuts stories, along with first access to the latest Coconuts TV documentaries.
More good news: COCO+ membership can be yours for less than the price of one coffee! Read more about COCO+ and sign up here.
All COCO+ members interested in this giveaway should email membership@coconuts.co with their full name and subject line “I want to go to The Beatles tribute night!” Members will be notified via email on 20 November 2019, so keep your eye on your inbox. We ask all winners to reply and claim their prize within 24 hours, or we will pick again.
