
# Hudson Police chief asking for public's support after sergeant's stroke abroad

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:26:29+00:00**

Author: **Christine McCarthy**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/hudson-police-chief-asking-for-public-s-support-after-sergeant-s-stroke-abroad/1005933657?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

HUDSON, Mass. - Police in Hudson, Mass. Are asking for the public's help as they rally around one of their own. A sergeant visiting Europe with his family is in the hospital after suffering a stroke.
The Hudson Police Chief tells Boston 25 News that he knows the sergeant and his family very well. That sergeant has been serving the community for decades and though he's usually the one helping others, the chief says it’s time to support him and his family in their difficult time in a foreign country.
"Scott is an awesome police officer, police sergeant," said Chief Michael Burks Sr. "And [has a] good family."
Raised in a law enforcement family, Hudson Police Sergeant Scott Chaulk has it in his blood. It's what he’s meant to do.
"He grew up in Hudson, his father was a police officer with the registry," Chief Burks said.
That's why Chief Burks is calling on the community Sergeant Chaulk has served for 21 years to help him in return.
"It would be easier if it were here," he said. "And he'd probably have a hallway full of police officers checking on him."
Chaulk was visiting Spain with his family, where one of his two sons is studying abroad, when the 53-year-old suffered a stroke last week.
"Right now he's in a Barcelona hospital," Chief Burks said. "They attended to him. He has had a surgery yesterday and one today."
What's next in his treatment and when he'll return are unknown.
"We don't know how long it's going to take and when he will be back here and, you know, stand beside us," Chief Burks said.
Until then, his extended family at Hudson PD is rallying around him, raising money to cover mounting medical bills and asking others to donate too.
"Our thoughts and prayers go out to him and his family," Chief Burks said. "And just let him know that he has the support of his brothers here at the Hudson Police Department."
The chief added that residents have come into the police station with donations in hand for the family. He says that shows the character of Sergeant Chaulk. But he’s asking donors to use a fund that’s been set up at a local bank or use a GoFundMe page. 
