
# Plymouth's famous pubs and how they got their names

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/food-drink/plymouths-famous-pubs-how-names-3483734)

Ever wondered where your local boozer got its name from?
Sailors, sunsets, Masons and trees are among the more traditional origins for Plymouth pub names.
But one city pub is named after a secret code for going for a beer without the wife finding out.
Another, just over the Tamar in Cornwall, was inadvertently re-christened by a confused delivery who was shocked to find two Butchers Arms' right next to each other.
Here we explain the meaning and history behind the names of 21 of the Plymouth area's best-known pubs.

        Eggbuckland Road, Compton
      
What it's named after: The view over what used to be farmland
One of Plymouth's oldest pubs, The Rising sun was originally cottages before being turned into Hoopers Ale House in the 1700s.
The original door knockers are still there inside the pub, which is made up of four old cottages on land that was known as Abraham's Farm until the area was gobbled up by the urban sprawl of the 1930s.
"The pub has been here for about 250 years and it's always been The Rising Sun," says landlord Mike Thomas. "The name probably comes from people coming home from the countryside and seeing the sun rising above the Rising Sun."

        Wolseley Road, Milehouse
      
What it's named after: Britain's Naval heritage
Once a popular live music venue and now a JD Wetherspoon pub, there was also once a Brtannia Inn on Octagon Sreet in Stonehouse.
The 'Brit' dates back to the 1830s when it was built in its original form by the ancestors of Plymouth-born Arctic explorer Captain Scott.
His family were linked with the Armed Forces and are thought to have named the pub after the country's rich Naval history.
Scott's grandfather retired from the Royal Navy in 1826 and the Hoegate Street Brewery with his brother. In 1830, he bought Outlands House, near the site of the inn he built a few years later.
On an unrelated note, there have been claims that a ghost lives in the cellar (more haunted pubs later on, keep reading...).

        Devonport Road, Stoke
      
What it's named after: Freemasons, who used to meet there
Nobody knows for sure, but the pub has always had the same name.
"We assume it was an old meeting place for the Masons," landlady Charmaine Hay says. "There is one Masonic Lodge around the corner from here (St Aubyns) and there used to be another one nearby."
Not a very secretive name, gents.

        Church Hill, Eggbuckland
      
What it's named after: The 1643 Royalist siege of Plymouth
The Prince Maurice was called The New Inn until 1964, when it was renamed to pay tribute to Plymouth's so-called 'forgotten war'.
It was approaching Christmas 1643 when the 22-year-old Prince Maurice came west to oversee the Royalist siege of Plymouth. Maurice set up base at Widey and Eggbuckland. and in November 1643 arranged his forces on the north side of Lipson valley, looking to attack the town to the east of the main – Maudlyn – fort.
After a few days of exchanging artillery fire, the troops were led, on December 3, by two local traitors, under cover of darkness, across Lipson Creek at low tide. They took Laira fort by surprise and with Prince Maurice leading a second attack across the creek, they managed to press home a quick advantage.
One cavalry section got closer to the town than any previous attack, as far as Resolution Fort – where Prince Maurice Court now stands and a remnant of the fort wall can still be seen. However, the Royalists were soon driven back by Colonel Gould and his Parliamentarian force and the Royalists fled down Lipson Hill, roughly along the line of Prince Maurice Road. Many men were killed or drowned trying to cross the now full creek.

        Underwood Road, Plympton
      
What it's named after: An old workhouse
Back in the bad old days, hard-up Janners could end up in a workhouse. There were several in Plymouth, including one in Stoke and one in Plympton.
The Plympton one, where the Plympton Hospital once stood, was called The Union Workhouse.
It was demolished in the 1970s and the site, just up the road from The Union Inn, has been empty ever since.
"It's a part of Plympton's history and it shouldn't have been demolished," says landlord Pete Sandbach. "It was legalised vandalism.
"When we have a power cut and everybody's light go out, ours don't because we're on a separate circuit that was for the hospital."

        St Andrew Street, city centre
      
What it's named after: The ex-landlord's gran
Plymouth's first Irish pub, Kitty's took over the bar which used to be known as The Abbey about 22 years ago.
Boss Ultan Moran believes the pub's original owner named it after his grandmother.
"There is a lot of history in this area," he says. "The Abbey Hotel, which this used to be, was owner by the Mumford family who had a garage where the [magistrates] court was.
"They used to produce ambulances during the war."

        Boringdon Road, Turnchapel
      
What it's named after: The name of the tiny bay it overlooks
Not named after the North Devon fishing village, but the little-known bay which is home to Turnchapel.
This pub also used to be called The New Inn until Maggie Hillman and her family took it over a decade ago.
"When we had to change the name there was already a company called Clovelly Bay Boatyard, which became Plymouth Yacht Haven," she explained.
"Where we are is actually called Clovelly Bay on the coast path map, and on the other side is Dead Man's Bay.
"We thought it would make a nice name for a pub."

        Commercial Road, Coxside
      
What it's named after: A park which used to stand where the Barbican Leisure Park now is
Landlord Quinton Style says the Thistle Park was a pottery before becoming a pub.
The origin of the name is unconfirmed, but Quinton says: "There is some sort of story about how there used to be a park just up the road there where the Warner Village now is and it had a lot of thistles in it.
"So the story goes, anyway."

        Cornwall Street, city centre
      
What it's named after: A Royal Navy ship
One of two Eagles, the other being opposite the Thistle Park Tavern in Coxside, this city centre pub is one of many paying tribute to the city's Naval history.
The original HMS Eagle was a famous 60-gun Navy ship which successfully fought the French in the mid-1700s.
The most recent HMS Eagle was a Devonport-based aircraft carrier.
Launched in March 1946, she was decommissioned in 1972 and some old boys still hold reunions at the pub today.

        Athenaeum Street, city centre
      
What it's named after: Second World War supermarine planes on the Hoe
The Walrus was built in the 1960s, when the memory of the Second World War was still fresh.
The Supermarine Walrus was a British single-engine amphibious biplane reconnaissance aircraft based out of Plymouth during the war.
Landlord Peter Fleet says: "Back in the war, on the Hoe were the hangars where the flying supermarine planes used to be stationed and they were called the walruses.
"It was built in the '60s and they called it The Walrus then."

        Devonport Road, Stoke
      
What it's named after: Absolutely nobody knows - but it's haunted
This one is a mystery.
Landlady Claire Bassett has been behind the bar for more than 25 years and has made every effort to solve the riddle - but without success.
"We were a meeting place for the Brethren so we thought it was maybe a meeting place for the Brethren," she says."Then I found out there was a pub called The Indian Arms in the city centre that was destroyed in the Blitz, so we thought maybe it was originally a microbrewery.
"I've tried so hard to find out, been through library records and everything Unfortunately it's been lost in the mist of time."
But she adds: "There is a fascinating history in Stoke. I was completely haunted and I had to have the house blessed by a vicar 11 years ago.
"People kept bringing photos of spirits in. There are lots of spirits here. Since the vicar blessed the house it's been fine. Although next door is still haunted by a nun."

        New Road, Saltash
      
What it's named after: A genuine Royal Navy hero
George Brydges Rodney was from Surrey and joined the Navy at the age of just 13, back in the 18th Century.
In 1742 he was given the rank of post-captain and appointed to Plymouth, where he was quickly promoted to captain.
At war with the French, in 1746 he obtained command of the 60-gun HMS Eagle.
His strategy brought triumph in the Battles of Cape Finisterre and he brought the Eagle safely back to Plymouth, where she was decommissioned.

        St Dominick
      
What it's named after: A delivery driver's surprise at finding two pubs called The Butchers Arms nearby
Nobody knows for sure where this quirky pub name comes from.
But landlord Paul Tarzlee tells a fascinating story of how it got the name, sometime around 50 years ago.
"It's a little bit murky but from what we know, until the '60s it was called The Butchers Arms," he says. "There was actually another Buthers Arms locally and it was confusing.
"So the story goes, a delivery driver who came in one day said to the landlord, 'Two Butchers Arms, who'd have thought it?' and the name came from that."
Locally, the pub was also known as The Sheffield. Some believe that nickname originated from the pub being the place to go if you needed knives - usually made in Sheffield - sharpened.
"But the field opposite the pub was called The Show Field so what's more likely is that it was a variation on that," Paul adds.

        The Square, Landrake
      
What it's named after: An Army officer who was given the Freedom of Plymouth
The Bullers Arms is named after a General Sir Redvers H Buller, who was born into a wealthy Cornish family.
Buller was an Army officer in the 19th Century who was awarded the Victoria Cross for his bravery during the Boer War.
Karen Graham, landlady, says: "There's a big picture of him here which is the only one in the country and he's got quite a few medals. We've had people come in here to pictures of it."
Buller received the Honorary Freedom of the Borough of Plymouth in April 1901 and there is a statue of him in Exeter, on the route to what was his home in Crediton.

        Mutley Plain
      
What it's named after: A rich Devon family
A Fortescue is the name of an Australian scorpion fish and also a Medieval Scottish clan.
But the multi-award-winning 'Fort' in Mutley is named after neither.
It's actually named after Lord Fortescue. Earl Fortescue is a title in the Peerage of Great Britain created in 1789 and the Fortescue family descends from Sir Hugh Fortescue of Filleigh, in Devon.
Charles Hugh Richard Fortescue is the 8th Earl Fortescue and the heir presumptive is the present holder's first cousin, John Andrew Francis Fortescue. The heir presumptive's heir apparent is his son Thomas Edmund Horatio Fortescue.
It is not known if any of them are regulars at the CAMRA-blessed pub.

        Market Way, city centre
      
What it's named after: Either horse racing or its proximity to the city's main market
The origin of this pub name is not 100% certain.
"It's a bit of a mystery," admitted landlady Audra Hampton. "The only think I can think of is there used to be a bookies underneath us, so maybe it's something to do with that."
Alternatively, the pub is near the Pannier Market, which once upon a time was shiny and new. Perhaps the bar used to be known as The New Market Tavern and lost a space in its name?

        Sutton Harbour
      
What it's named after: Its former life as a 17th Century china clay factory
The China House, which still has historic elements inside, was a china clay factory in the 1600s.
The exact dates are unknown, but the building is first seen in a 1666 Sir Bernard Gromme watercolour of Sutton Harbour.
As a china clay factory, it was famous for making England's first hard porcelain, produced by William Cookworthy in 1768.
The building was later used as a Red Cross hospital during the Second World War.

        Meavy
      
What it's named after: A massive 800-year-old tree which is right outside
Unsurprisingly, the Royal Oak is named after a tree - specifically, an oak.
It's also one of the only pubs in the country to be owned by the paris.
Barman Oliver Wheeldon said: "The pub is 15th century and the oak tree on the village green outside is an 800-year-old oak."
The 'royal' link is unclear - but t's as simple as that.

        Mayflower Street, city centre
      
What it's named after: The landlord's great-great-grandfather
Henry J's was almost called The Point or The Boulevard when it opened in September 1989.
But landlord Peter Jones decided to go for something much more personal - instead naming it after his great-great-grandfather John Henry Jones (or Henry J for short).
"We were looking around at names," he says. "One was The Point – but we realised people would go around asking 'What's the point?'.
"Another one was Boulevard.Then we thought about somebody from the family."

        Gilwell Street, North Hill
      
What it's named after: The place nearby workers would tell their wives they were going
Nobody seems quite sure why The Nowhere Inn got its name - although being tucked away in a quiet North Hill street, it does seem apt.
The Nowhere has been a pub for more than 200 years and is thought to have originally been built to be a church.
Landlord Phil Cawse admits he has "no idea" where the name came from - but regulars there claim they have the answer.
"Somebody said dairy workers named the pub the Nowhere because when their wives asked them where they were going they used to say 'nowhere'," Phil says.
"I'm not sure it's true, but there was a dairy here. This is actually the second-oldest pub in Plymouth."
