
# Celtic, Rangers, Hearts and the rest discover Premiership report cards as we separate the achievers from the dunces

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Parks, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gordon-parks/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/celtic-rangers-hearts-rest-discover-20790420)

Eleven games down as Premiership title bids and survival missions become clearer now that the top flight clubs have all faced each other.
It’s report card time as Record Sport assesses who’s top of the class and who’s heading for the dunce corner after the first quarter of the campaign.
With the Old Firm neck and neck at the summit and five points separating the teams sitting from sixth spot to the bottom, there’s plenty who must do better and some who are showing potential in the bid to claim the honours this season.
Won: 9 Drawn 1 Lost 1
Goals for 34
Goals against 7
Top scorer: Odsonne Edouard 8
Star Man: Ryan Christie
Neil Lennon’s Celtic have managed to combine both domestic and Europa League duties with a degree of comfort in his side’s relentless quest to make it nine-in-a-row.
The key has been to bolster his backline with genuine quality from the addition of Fraser Forster in goal to the likes of Christopher Jullien, Hatem Abed Elhamed, even the much maligned Boli Bolingoli is looking the part. Kristofer Ajer’s improvement has been stark and that base allows the Premiership’s top assist king James Forrest and the rest to thrive with Odsonne Edouard providing the star turn on the goal front. The Hoops have been clinical with a strength in depth which bodes well for the challenges ahead. There win over Rangers at Ibrox provided both a psychological blow to their rivals and a sign it’s going to be business as usual.

        Verdict: 9/10
      
Won 9 Drawn 1 Lost 1
Goals for 33
Goals against 7
Top scorer: Alfredo Morelos 8
Star Man: Ryan JackThere’s no doubt Steven Gerrard’s has a firm grasp of what’s required if Rangers are to match their city rivals in his second season in Scotland. His management of Alfredo Morelos has transformed a player where petulance has been replaced by a happier hitman who’s sole focus is now all about goals. The Colombian has shared scoring duties with Jermain Defoe who has been a calming influence on his temperamental sidekick. It’s in the engine room where Gers have bridged the gap, Steven Davis is in the form of his life and he’s lifted the level of performance of Ryan Jack through the roof. Joe Aribo and Sheyi Ojo are finding a consistency as creative forces and Ryan Kent is back to bring to flair on the flank. Defensively there are teething problems but eight games in a marker has been laid that Rangers can go the distance.Verdict: 9/10
Won 6 Drawn 1 Lost 4
Goals for 18 Goals against 16
Top scorer: Liam Donnelly 5
Star man: Declan Gallagher
It’s early days but it appears the Lanarkshire side’s ability to source diamonds from down south can pay dividends yet again. Stephen Robinson’s changed the style of his team but as always it’s about pace on the flanks with Jermaine Hylton and Sherwin Seedorf both hitting the ground running.
Devante Cole has shown he has goals in him and the movement and speed of Chris Long carries a threat to any opposition. It’s also been a coming of age few months for the likes of academy players Allan Campbell and James Scott. Irishmman Liam Donnelly is delivering midfield drive as well as goals and the arrival of Declan Gallagher has been key as he’s brought an assurance to a defence which has a more secure and organised look to it.

        Verdict: 8/10
      
Won 5 Drawn 3 Lost 3
Goals for 14 Goals against 14
Top scorer: Sam Cosgrove: 6
Star Man: Sam Cosgrove
The importance of a win over Hamilton on Wednesday can’t be overstated as it’s allowed the Dons to get their worst display of the campaign so far out of their system. That passive and pitiful first-half performance which saw them trail Celtic by four goals has to become history if Derek McInnes is to guide his side into third spot and on the evidence so far it’s a team which have regressed.
Injuries to key men have offered some mitigation but the Red Army aren’t happy and only a huge improvement in the next quarter will keep the boo-boys at bay.
There are high earners at Pittodrie who need to start pulling their weight as it’s been an underachieving start with nowhere near enough cutting edge in the final third as Sam Cosgrove carries the scoring burden on his back. McInnes knows where his problems lie but the return of Scott McKenna and Craig Bryson will help.

        Verdict: 6/10
      
Won 5 Drawn 2 Lost 4
Goals for 10 Goals against 10
Top scorer: Stephen O’Donnell, Gary Dicker, Liam Millar all 2.
Star Man: Alan Power
Angelo Alessio has his critics but you have to take your hat off the Italian for the change in fortune at a club which were shockingly dumped out of Europe by Welsh minnows Connah’s Quay.
The storm clouds at Rugby Park have been replaced by optimism of a side which is now back to doing the basics well and getting results which may not be easy on the eye but is effective.
There are no frills to his style, not many goals but their clean sheet record has been remarkable and that’s the base which can ensure Killie remain safely in the top six.
Adding a cutting edge in the final third is a priority but with the combination of Alan Power and Gary Dicker in midfield, it’s been a professional and steady few months for a side still striving to hit top gear.

        Verdict: 7/10
      
Won 3 Drawn 4 Lost 4
Goals for 15 Goals against 15
Top scorer: Stevie Lawless: 4
Star Man: Lyndon Dykes
Once again Livi have shown that you don’t need a huge budget to go toe to toe with the Premiership’s top teams and they have already taken a few impressive scalps. Gary Holt’s approach is unashamedly basic as they get the ball forward and try to maximise their attacking set-piece opportunities. The loss of Declan Gallagher and Craig Halkett this summer hasn’t disrupted a defence which remains resolute and they have energy and commitment all over the pitch.
The signing of Lyndon Dykes has added a focal point in attack and the absence of the Australian in recent weeks has highlighted the need to reinforcements in that department.
Punching above their weight is a challenge this club relish and they should have enough to ensure they’ll retain their status in this division next season which is always the end game.

        Verdict: 7/10
      
Won 3 Drawn 4 Lost 4
Goals for 19 Goals against 23
Top scorer: Ross Stewart: 4
Star Man: Michael Gardyne
It’s been a mixed bag for County after an impressive start but they’ve shown they have a squad which is suited to coping with top-flight demands. Survival is the first agenda in Dingwall and there’s an experience throughout the team which management duo Stuart Kettlewell and Stevie Ferguson have harnessed well in the spine of their side. They are a pairing who are learning on the job and the likes of Sean Kelly, Ross Draper, Joe Chalmers. Michael Gardyne and Billy McKay bring a quality to the team which offers hope of a keeping they Highlander’s heads above water.

        Verdict: 6/10
      
Won 2 Drawn 4 Lost 5
Goals for 11 Goals against 24
Top scorer: Callum Hendry, Michael O’Halloran, David Wotherspoon all 2.
Star Man: Zander Clark
Saints have shown over the matter of a few games that a few wins can chase away all of the ill winds blowing about a club which looked incapable of pulling themselves off the foot of the table.
One look at their goals against column tells its own story and the fact keeper Zander Clark has received most plaudits tells another. Boss Tommy Wright should never be taken for granted in Perth as he’s shown time after time that he can steer his team through a crisis and put together a run of form. It’s been a first quarter which provided a wake-up call but with Stevie May and Michael O’Halloran now getting into the groove, much better is expected in the months ahead.

        Verdict: 5/10
      
Won 1 Drawn 6 Lost 4
Goals for 12 Goals against 22
Top scorer: Scott Allan 3
Star Man: Daryl Horgan
Whether boss Paul Heckingbottom gets the chance to put right an appalling first quarter remains to be seen but a huge improvement had better come quickly.
There’s a softness to his side, a mentality which has players throwing up the white flag at the first sign of adversity as their abysmal record of throwing away leading positions testifies.
Easter Road now has a toxic air to it and the fans want a change but Heckingbottom needs to prove he’s the man to turn it all around and a League Cup semi-final win over Celtic would be a good start.
He has big issues to address, Scott Allan’s central midfield role comes at a cost as they concede grit and industry in the engine room with Stevie Mallan shunted out wide on the right.
The team needs a better balance and whether he can persevere with the inconsistent Florian Kambere in attack is another question.

        Verdict: 2/10
      
Won 2 Drawn 2 Lost 6
Goals for 10 Goals against 20
Top scorer: Ross Cunningham, George Oakley both 3
Star Man: Sam Stubbs
Nobody expected Brian Rice’s side to be anything more than battling in the bottom six and it’s gone according to type for a side always up against it with an inferior budget to the majority of Premiership clubs. Nicking the odd result on the road has been the salvation for Accies season on season but it’s not happened yet and that’s the biggest worry. Rice is one of the best coaches in the country and will find a style which gives his side a real identity but at the moment it’s not one which offers a belief things will get better any time soon. It could be a cue for reinforcements in January.

        Verdict: 5/10
      
Won 1 Drawn 5 Lost 5
Goals for 10 Goals against 15
Top scorer: Ryotaro Meshino, Uche Ikpeazu both 2
Star Man: Aaron Hickey
It’s difficult to see things going from bad to worse but with this Hearts side anything’s possible.
Craig Levein has gone and Austin MacPhee is now in temporary charge as Ann Budge hunts for a successor.
There have been injuries to key men but this period of decline hasn’t just been this season, it stretches well beyond and the loss of Craig Halkett at the heart of defence has been another hammer blow. The return of Steven Naismith and Jamie Walker can’t come a moment too soon.

        Verdict: 1/10
      
Won 2 Drawn 2 Lost 7
Goals against 11 Goals for 5
Top scorer: Tony Andreu, Kyle Magennis, Jonathan Obika, Danny Mullen, Ikay Durmus all 1.
Star Man: Vaclav Hladky
There’s no secret to where Jim Goodwin’s biggest issues lie and it’s their paltry return in the goals for column which has carried his team to the bottom.
He has one of the Premiership’s top keepers in Vaclav Hladky and a sound defence has stood up well so far but the Buddies need to find their shooting boots if they’re to pull themselves to safety.
Goodwin knows there’s nothing much between the bottom seven or eight sides and he’s not the type to panic and given time he’s more than capable of recruiting attacking options which can turn things in his team’s favour. A hitman who can add a physical edge and put away a few chances is high on his wish list.

        Verdict: 4/10
      

         
      
