
# Woman flicks helmet from mall’s parking

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/woman-flicks-helmet-from-malls-parking/articleshow/71944669.cms)

With the increased traffic fines, the parking staff of malls are now on high alert to prevent people from stealing helmets from neighboring bikes in the parking lots. In a recent incident, a woman was caught on camera inside the parking lot of Forum Mall, stealing a helmet from another bike. Though this seems to be to dodge the traffic cops, the woman seems nonchalant about the theft itself. The video has gone viral on social media. The victim Bharath is said to have approached the Adugodi police on Monday but has not filed a written complaint yet. Police said that he and his friend had come to the Forum Mall in Koramangala to watch a movie and had parked his bike in the parking lot. After the two finished the movie and returned to the bike, they were not able to find one of their helmets which was kept on the bike. He searched around and even asked the security guards at the parking lot but none of them knew about it.
.
Bharath told the police that the fines are so high that they cannot afford to ride without helmet and the parking staff has taken no responsibility for the theft. With the help of police, Bharath obtained the CCTV footage from the parking lot of the mall and learnt that a woman who was riding pillion with another biker, had stolen the helmet. Bharath claimed that despite the malls charging such heavy parking fares, they were not looking after the helmets left behind. A senior officer said that since the time the traffic fines had increased, such helmet thefts in the parking lots had also increased and the police had been asking the guards at the parking lots to be on alert or ask the riders to carry the helmets along with them. Adugodi police said that Bharath had narrated the incident to the police but had not filed the official written complaint yet.
