
# Pokémon Sword And Shield Will Host Its First Online Battle Competition This December

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Craddock**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/pokemon_sword_and_shield_will_host_its_first_online_battle_competition_this_december)

The Pokémon Company has revealed that Pokémon Sword and Shield will feature an online competition soon after launch, allowing Trainers from all over the globe to compete for glory.
The event will be called Galar Beginnings and will be held in December 2019. If you want to take part, you'll have to make sure you've signed up to compete from within the game itself by 5th December. We've got all the details you'll need below.
Competition Name: Galar BeginningsSign-Up Period: Friday, November 15, at 00:00 GMT to Thursday, December 5, at 23:59 GMTCompetition Period: Friday, December 6, at 00:00 GMT to Sunday, December 8, at 23:59 GMTBattle Format: Single BattleEligible Pokémon: Pokémon obtained in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield
Ranking Results Announcement: December 2019
To sign up, you'll need to press 'X' in your copy of the game to open the main menu. From there, choose 'VS, Battle Stadium', and then 'Online Competitions'. You'll need an active subscription to the Nintendo Switch Online service to take part.
More details are expected to be shared soon, but make sure to keep this in mind for when the games launch next week. In the meantime, make sure to check out the new five-minute trailer shared earlier today.
