
# Officials warn of landslides, floods, as Bali enters rainy season

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:58:02+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bali**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bali/news/officials-warn-of-landslides-floods-as-bali-enters-rainy-season/)

Now that some parts of Bali have officially entered the rainy season, the local chapter of Indonesia’s Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency (BMKG) has issued a reminder for islanders to remain cautious, citing possibilities of landslides, floods and strong winds. 
“The local government should be cleaning the waterways before we get to the peak of the rainy season. They should also start cutting tree branches,” Iman Faturahman, who heads the data and information department at one of the BMKG chapters in Denpasar, told Kompas.com. 
According to Imam, strong winds are likely to take place during this season and could therefore result in trees collapsing. 
Over the weekend, rain fell on some parts of the island, including Bangli and Karangasem. 
Imam said that peak of the rainy season will likely fall either in January or February of next year. 
A similar warning was also issued by the Bali Regional Disaster Management Agency (BPBD).
“There’s even a possibility of hail and high tides on the coastline. The threat of hydrometeorological disasters such as floods and landslides are highly possible during the rainy season,” BPBD Bali acting head, I Made Rentin, told Merdeka.com.
Rentin said that landslides are more likely to occur in Karangasem, Bangli, Buleleng, Tabanan and Jembrana, while all areas across the island could potentially experience floods. 

        
          Read more news and updates from Bali 
        
        
          
            here.
          
        
      
