
# Charles Leclerc talks too much on the radio to be number 1 at Ferrari

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49550/charles-leclerc-talks-too-much-on-the-radio-to-be-number-1-at-ferrari.html)


        Since Charles Leclerc joined Ferrari, Sebastian Vettel's status as the number one driver at the team has been seriously threatened. Ferrari traditionally always have a number one driver and next season it is going to be really hard for them to choose between their two racers.  
      
Former Ferrari boss Luca di Montezemolo insists that this model is that way forward and doesn't believe that Leclerc is good enough to be number one just yet. 
"I always bet on one driver who wins the title and the other is there to win points for the constructors' championship," Montezemolo said to Italian Radio Rai. "I think one of the problems Ferrari had this year was that they had to manage two top drivers like Vettel and Leclerc.

        "I think a lot about Ferrari's future. Leclerc is a very fast young driver. He surprised everyone and nobody expected him to be so fast in his first year, but he talks too much on the radio. 
      

        "He is very good, but we have to be careful. He has to grow over time, but not too fast."
      
Leclerc is currently 19 points ahead of Vettel and explaining to him that Vettel is going to be the number one driver at Ferrari next season will be tricky. It will be interesting to see what the Italian team decide to do. 
