
# Khune’s Topless Pic Sends Shockwaves Through Social Media

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:39:00+00:00**

Author: **SL Social**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/fan-park/footballer-s-chill/khune-s-topless-pic-sends-shockwaves-through-social-media/666815)

Itumeleng Khune has a knack for getting tongues wagging on social media and he has done it again. This time, the Kaizer Chiefs shot stopper went topless, much to the amusement of fans countrywide.
The 32-year-old has been absent from the Chiefs starting XI for the last couple of weeks due to an injury he suffered. 

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
In his absence, Nigerian, Daniel Akpeyi has done a stellar job in keeping the Amakhosi ship afloat with his heroic performances.
Khune however, managed to hog the headlines for a different reason altogether, when he posted a topless image of himself on his social media platforms along with a few inspiring words.
“Don't tell anyone what you are doing until it's done. Outside energy has a bad influence on goals. Work hard in silence and let your success be your noise. Every glory has a story. The beginning may not be encouraging but with endurance, perseverance & hard work everything ends well,” he captioned the picture.
There were mixed reactions from fans, with many questioning his physique, while others were quick to point out that they had grown accustomed to his body and believes he can still deliver with it.
