
# Dubai’s Desert Warrior Challenge to return to Al Qudra Lakes in 2020

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/421463-dubais-desert-warrior-challenge-to-return-to-al-qudra-lakes-in-2020)

Prepare for the dirt, rolling sand dunes and finish line cheers, Dubai’s Desert Warrior Challenge returns, and it’s bringing back its gruelling (but oh so fun) obstacles.The homegrown obstacle course is making a grand comeback to Al Qudra Lakes, with more than 22 difficult obstacles to get past across a distance of 5km or 10km.Taking place on Friday February 14 from 7am onwards, warriors will be jogging around the lakes through set tracks, along with various obstacles that are both mentally and physically challenging – intended to push you well and truly out of your comfort zone.Established obstacles include crowd favourite The Beast, and the humongous slide is a monster in nature as well as name, and the tricky 1/4 Pipe – the adrenaline-pumping final challenge.There’s also Claustrophobia, which will have runners crawl through a dark tunnel with water to wade through. Prepare to get muddy.Think it’s a walk in the park? Take the challenge and test your strength by registering at www.desertwarriorchallenge.com/registration. Prices start at $90 (Dhs330) for the 5km course with 12 obstacles, and at $102 (Dhs375) for the 10km course with 22 obstacles. Good luck.It isn’t just for adults, as little ones from ages six and above can tackle a 1km or 2km course, with eight obstacles to get through. Prices start at $27 (Dhs99).If you’re looking for a taste of what you’re in for, Tough Mudder UAE is only around the corner, part of the Dubai Fitness Challenge’s big final weekend.For plenty of more things to do in Dubai, click here.From $90 (approx. Dhs330). Fri Feb 14, 7am-4pm. Al Marmoon, Al Qudra, www.desertwarriorchallenge.com/registration.
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
