
# Mayor, BBMP staff on tour to study waste management

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/mayor-bbmp-staff-on-tour-to-study-waste-management/articleshow/71859804.cms)

The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Karnataka Power Corporation (KPCL) are planning to set up a waste-to-energy plant in Mandur. The Mayor and other BBMP officials will be visiting Indore and Delhi this month to understand how these cities are managing their waste. Mayor Goutham Kumar said, “We are planning to set up a waste-to- energy plant. We will be travelling to Delhi and Indore to observe and learn the procedures that they are following to manage waste”. Meanwhile, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has already ordered KPCL to go ahead with the waste-to-energy plant either in Bellary or Mandur. “The local MLA at Mandur and the local panchayat have given their consent,” said the mayor. Sarfaraz Khan, BBMP Joint Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, said, “For a 1,000 tonne plant, we would need 20 to 25 acres of land. We want to set up a bio-methanisation plant where the segregated waste will be processed. The burning of mixed waste is not permitted according to the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.” Solid waste management experts said that setting up of the plant in Mandur is a good idea if it is to clear the waste that is already dumped there. NS Ramakanth, co-founder of the solid waste management round table, said, “It will be a good trial run for the waste-to-energy plant if they clear the waste that is already dumped there. But the plant should not be set up to process waste produced by the city. Otherwise people will start not segregate the waste and dump mixed waste only. We are already struggling to implement complete segregation of waste.” Earlier, the government had given its approval to the KPCL to set up a 15 MW waste-to-energy plant in Bidadi. The BBMP had signed a MoU with the KPCL to establish the plant for converting the Refused Derived Fuel (RDF) to energy. A waste-to-energy plant by the French company 3Waste will soon come up in Chikkanagamangala. According to the agreement, the plant will be built at a cost of Rs 250 crore and with a capacity of 600 tonnes. The finances and clearances from the pollution control board are pending. Recently, the High Court observed that the BBMP has failed to implement the Solid Waste Management Rules of 2000 and 2016 and has violated the rights of the citizens to live in an environment free of pollution. The court had also set a two-month deadline for the Palike to show positive progress in terms of implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules.
