
# Dorte Mandrup Wins Competition to Design Cultural Building in Norway

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ArchDaily](https://www.archdaily.com/927725/dorte-mandrup-wins-competition-to-design-cultural-building-in-norway?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+ArchDaily+%28ArchDaily%29&hl=en)

The Danish architecture firm Dorte Mandrup A/S won the international competition to design “The Whale”, a new touristic attraction for northern Norway, that will tell the stories of the majestic sea creature through art, science, and architecture.
Located on a plot 300km north of the Arctic Circle, on the island of Andøya, a small town of 2600 citizens, which happens to be one of the best places in the world for whale watching, the cultural building is expected to strengthen northern Norway’s status as a travel destination.
Launched in spring 2019, the competition for the new arctic attraction gathered applications from 37 international teams. Dorte Mandrup A/S, specialized in cultural buildings, landmarks, transformations of listed buildings, and interventions in sensitive landscapes, was first qualified with finalists BIG, Snohetta and Reiulf Ramstad Architects, before winning the contest.
Created for a unique landscape, “The Whale” was designed as an extension of the natural site, rising physically like a hill and creating cavities underneath. Thought as an experience in itself, the building offers diverse perceptions. The Danish architecture studio imagined a parabolic shaped roof, directly inspired by the surrounding. The curved roof, covered with stones, mimics even the natural envelope of the land. Blending with the context, the building also enhances the setting through the introduction of a complementary function. “The Whale”, expected to open by 2022, will host exhibition spaces, offices, a café, and a store.
