
# Logan Paul admits to breaking self-imposed sex ban ahead of KSI rematch

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/logan-paul-admits-breaking-self-20829966)

Logan Paul has admitted he broke his own sex ban in the build up to his rematch with KSI.
The American YouTube star will settle his feud with his fellow social media sensation when the pair clash in Los Angeles on Saturday.
Paul has been training with former heavyweight world champion Shannon Briggs after turning professional for the sequel which will be held 14 months after the first fight ended in a draw.
Paul had previously claimed that he was abstaining from sex for the duration of this training camp and that he had banned girls from his 'Maverick Mansion'.
But he has now conceded: "There were no girlfriends, just tunnel vision, no sex all camp but just one issue a month ago... so we did four weeks.
"In this camp I have never been more calm focused and confident. I truly feel like the best version of myself and better than I have ever felt and boxing is the vehicle for that."
Briggs was brought on board earlier this year when promoter Eddie Hearn demanded Paul and KSI turn professional in order for him to stage the show.
And the 47-year-old former boxer insists his man has the mentality to win.
"He's mean right now, he's ready to fight," he said. "Everybody had to move people out of the house, we're not playing.
"I called him the first week and told him he had to change as a person, that boxing will change you.
"You've got to dig deep into your soul because you have to confront fighting another man. I don't care what you say, it's not easy; you can lose, get knocked out, be embarrassed.
"The man's already famous so he's got a lot to lose. He took everything seriously because he knows I can't play around; this is my life, I didn't come to play."
