
# Wishaw, Newmains, Motherwell and Cleland library hours cut due to cuts

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Wishaw Press, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/wishaw-press/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/wishaw-newmains-motherwell-cleland-library-20815304)

Wishaw Library will be closing two hours earlier on Mondays and Wednesdays from later this month.
It follows a public consultation during the summer, which asked users to choose when the current hours of opening should be retained and which two evenings should be cut as part of a savings package.
Cleland and Newarthill libraries will now be closed on Tuesdays and Thursdays as part of the same budgeting measures and their late openings will cease.
Newmains library will be closing at 2pm on Fridays and Shotts and New Stevenston libraries will also shut at that time plus all-day on Saturdays.
Motherwell library will also now close earlier at 5pm on Tuesdays and Wednesdays instead of the current 7pm under the plans – which come into effect next Monday, November 18.
Library operators Culture NL had already decided to retain the later finishing time for its main town centre libraries on Thursdays, identified as the busiest evening of the week; Tuesday was then chosen as the other 7pm finish by 42 per cent of those voting on Wishaw’s hours.
It means the town centre library, based in the Houldsworth Centre on Kenilworth Avenue, will now open from 9am to 5pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays; 9am to 7pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays; and 10am to 5pm on Saturdays.
The changed hours and days are the result of Culture NL being required to find efficiency savings of £400,000 for the current financial year, and the organisation noted of the consultation responses: “Most comments received stated an opposition to the proposals.”
A total of 966 online and paper survey responses were submitted, including letters from two library industry bodies.
