
# Najib too ‘sore’ to stand trial for 1MDB but OK to visit Tanjung Piai? Dr M says judge decides, won’t question court inaction

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:49:15+00:00**

Author: **BY DEBRA CHONG**

Original: [Malaymail](https://www.malaymail.com/news/malaysia/2019/11/04/najib-too-sore-to-stand-trial-for-1mdb-but-ok-to-visit-tanjung-piai-dr-m-sa/1806702)

BANGKOK, Nov 4 — Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad today said he will not question the judge’s decision not to act against Datuk Seri Najib Razak who is suspected of abusing his medical leave to prolong his 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) corruption trial.
The 94-year-old prime minister, who is currently here for the 35th Asean Summit and other related meetings, noted that his predecessor has been given medical leave for an assortment of ailments that excuse him from attending hearings, but has been playing an active role recently campaigning for the Opposition Barisan Nasional (BN) in the Tanjung Piai parliamentary by-election.
“I think this eye sore, sore throat and all that, he’s given days off and he doesn’t attend court. But then he can campaign in Tanjung Piai.
“We don’t question the judges. They decide,” he answered when asked to comment on Najib’s repeated court absences for the high-profile trial that is being followed closely worldwide.
Earlier today in Kuala Lumpur, 1MDB trial judge Collin Lawrence Sequerah warned Najib’s defence lawyers that misleading the court could amount to contempt and that he would take punitive action against the Pekan MP if he was proven to have done so.
Najib called in sick last Thursday, claiming to have some eye problems again, but was actively joining the BN campaign trail in Johor the same night.
The prosecution raised his “miraculous” recovery within the few short hours and suggested the High Court restrict Najib’s movement or impose new bail conditions to prevent a repeat.
It was not the first time Najib had called in sick due to some infection.
