
# Shia LaBeouf Thanks Cop for 2017 Arrest for Public Drunkenness

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christina Majaski**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/news/entertainment/shia-labeouf-thanks-cop-for-2017-arrest-for-public-drunkenness.html)

From “Transformers” to “Disturbia” to “Surf's Up,” Shia LaBeouf might be as well known for his mark in cinematic history as he is for his memes including the “just do it!” motivational speech from four years ago, and his run-ins with the law. It turns out, he’s actually grateful for his arrest in 2017.
RELATED: Kevin Hart Opens Up About Terrifying Car Crash in New Video
During his acceptance speech at the Hollywood Film Awards in L.A., Shia publicly thanked the police officer responsible for arresting him two years ago. While grasping the award given to him in appreciation for his “Honey Boy” script, the 33-year-old actor gave thanks to the cop who helped turn his life around.
“I want to thank the police officer who arrested me in Georgia for changing my life,” he said.
Shia would go on to give props to his sponsor — the actor is as open about his many struggles with sobriety in the past — as well as his therapist and his folks. Footage from the 2017 arrest in which Shia was charged with public drunkenness and disorderly conduct, showed the “Eagle Eye” star go on a wildly offensive rant while evidently intoxicated.
Known as a bit of a loose cannon in many respects, it seems that Shia might be looking to reconnect with audiences in a more mature and honest way via “Honey Boy.” Having writing the award-winning script himself, the actor and writer will also see himself take the lead role in the autobiographical film. Close friend Alma Har'el will be seated in the director's chair, the two having built an unlikely relationship after Shia discovered her work misplaced in the Bob Dylan section at a record store. 
