
# Manu Tuilagi's girlfriend is Chantelle Garrity with whom he has 18-month-old daughter

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/manu-tuilagis-girlfriend-chantelle-garrity-20750537)

Manu Tuilagi's settled home life has been credited for keeping his career on track as he prepares to play in the Rugby World Cup Final.
Tuilagi became a father 18 months ago and settling down with fiancee Chantelle Garrity has helped him focus on the latter stages of his international career.
Chantelle is a Manchester University graduate who went on to work in her family's Leicestershire-based construction company as a business development manager.
She now spends the majority of her time at home looking after their daughter, Leilani Lea'auta, whose name translates to 'heavenly flower'.
Chantelle has posted a host of pictures on Instagram of Lani sending messages of support to Tuilagi.
She was over in Tokyo for the early stages of the competition before heading home, while it is unknown if she will be travelling back again for the final.
In three photos featured on Chantelle's Instagram, Lani is seen wearing an England shirt.
A chalkboard is also featured on the pics, one with the message reading "go daddy" from before the semi-final vs New Zealand and another saying "so proud daddy" following the game.
The settled home life that Tuilagi lead is partly responsible for the success he is now having on the pitch, according to England defence coach John Mitchell.
"He's also older now, he's also a father and that brings responsibilities and a different maturity as well," Mitchell said.
"He's in a particularly good space because he is being managed well, he is being led well which then leads to his own leadership taking ownership of it.
"He is just that much older. He's obviously been through a few rugby movies in his time and this stage doesn't always come around."

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
