
# Adobe Shows Off AI Tool With 99% Accuracy Of Exposing Photoshopped Faces

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Izza Sofia**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407252/Adobe-Shows-Off-AI-Tool-With-99-Accuracy-Of-Exposing-Photoshopped-Faces/)

Researchers at Adobe have developed an AI tool that is capable of identifying if photos have been retouched. The Project About Face experiment, powered by Adobe’s AI tech Sensei, was previewed at the Adobe MAX event this week. Employees trained the AI with thousands of photos, sharing that it is able to detect altered images with about 99-percent accuracy. The algorithms examine each photo pixel-by-pixel, producing heat maps that indicate which parts are believed to have been digitally doctored. In the world of “deepfakes” and manipulated images, About Face is a great technology to use to expose any bogus photos. However, it only works if the edits are made via Photoshop’s liquify tool. Advertisement Advertisement Adobe teased the feature back in June, but the public now has a closer look at how impressive it works. Besides detecting images for alterations, Project About Face allows users to adjust or add “creative characters” in their portraits, encouraging users to show off their creativity in their snaps. These adjustments aren’t permanent, and users can always undo them to revert to the original image. Similar to Adobe’s recent Sneaks that magically include the photographer in group shots and let designers animate fonts easily, it is unclear if Adobe will ever make this innovation a reality.
