
# Daniel Craig insists he isn't grumpy but refuses to try and change perceptions

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:10:34+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/daniel-craig-insists-isnt-grumpy-20806003)

Daniel Craig insists he is far grumpy, despite what people say - but isn't interesting in changing what they think.
The James Bond star says the impression some have of him couldn't be further from the truth.
But the actor admits he makes very little effort to try and change perceptions of him.
Craig told The Sunday Times : “I don’t do much to dispel it, because I’d just be chasing my tail to prove that I’m not the person people think I am.
“You know, I probably don’t have a particularly good public persona. I just grew up in an era when, if you were trying to be an artist, you didn’t look for approval. You didn’t look for likes. You just did your thing. And this? This is what I do.
“Some do. Some can go on talk shows and tell stories, but I’m just not wired that way. I don’t know what to say.
“I can try, but people would go, ‘What’s he doing?’ They’d go, ‘Where is the grumpy f*****?'
“But I’m not grumpy. Genuinely, I’m not. I love what I do.”
Grumpy or not, cinemas across the world will sell out when 007 returns to the big screen.
A teaser image for Bond's 25th cinematic outing shows the dashing spy feeling the wear and tear.
Daniel appears battered and bleary-eyed with a ripped top and bloodied forehead.
The snap was shared by the official 007 Instagram account, he caption reading: "Back in action. Daniel Craig as 007 in NO TIME TO DIE."
The film's on course for an April 2020 release, helmed by director Cary Fukunaga.
The account's been teasing the flick for some time now - a previous snap shows Daniel in Bond's classic tux posing up a storm with Cary.
The account wrote: "That's a wrap on #NoTimeToDie. See you in cinemas April 2020. #Bond25."
