
# ASUS shares list of 120fps games for the ROG Phone II (Update: New games)

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:37:53+00:00**

Author: **Manuel Vonau**

Original: [Android Police](https://www.androidpolice.com/2019/11/01/asus-rog-phone-ii-120-fps-hz-games/)


        Update 1: 2019/09/27 1:10pm PDTNew games and a removal
         Update 2: 2019/11/01 12:38am PDTMore new games
      
ASUS announced the ROG Phone II earlier this year, and it is truly a beast of a smartphone, featuring up to 1TB of storage, a Snapdragon 855 Plus, 12GB of RAM, and a 120Hz display. With the September launch date inching closer, the company is sharing which games will support the high-refresh-rate screen, plus a couple more that barely surpass 60fps.
While the vast majority of games only support regular displays capable of outputting a maximum of 60fps, ASUS and other manufacturers could convince quite a few developers to adjust their products for faster screens. It's great to see classics like Alto's Adventure, Riptide GP, Plague Inc, Don't Starve, and even Temple Run 2 on the list, supporting the full 120fps. We have to call out ASUS for including Heart Star with 65fps and three more games with 70fps, though – that barely qualifies as high-frame-rate gaming.
Many of the games included in the list can also be found through the ROG Phone's own Armoury Crate app.
Check out the ASUS ZenTalk forum to see if the company posts more games before it launches the phone, and also take a peek at Razer's list of 120Hz-optimized games. Technically, titles from both lists should work on all high-refresh-rate screens.

          Update 1: 2019/09/27 1:10pm PDT by Manuel Vonau
        

          New games and a removal
        
ASUS just updated the list of games and added a disclaimer saying support for high fps gaming "can break at any given time if/when the game developer makes changes to their game - and we are not in control over this." Sure enough, Sky Force Reloaded has been removed from the overview while three new games have been added:
We've updated the original list above accordingly.
End of Update

            Update 2: 2019/11/01 12:38am PDT by Manuel Vonau
          

            More new games
          
ASUS added a quite a number of games to the list over October, all of which reach the full 120fps. As before, we've updated the original list above with the new content.
End of Update

            Source: 
            ASUS
          

            Via: 
            PiunikaWeb
          
