
# Disappearing cats and deadly ditches

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:51:13+00:00**

Author: **Letters**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/01/disappearing-cats-and-deadly-ditches)


        Citizenship | Equal pay | Steve Bell | Larry the cat | Halloween
      
Citizenship is thriving in schools across the land (Letters, 28 October). The headteacher in our local primary school uses one assembly a week to discuss British values as part of the citizenship curriculum – a Cameron government initiative. And the National Citizen Service – another Cameron initiative – is hugely popular, with increasing numbers of 16- and 17-year-olds spending part of their summer holidays volunteering.Christine RaperHonnington, Shropshire
• Your report on Samira Ahmed’s equal pay claim (31 October) suggests the BBC thinks it right to pay more for an entertainment presenter dealing with topics in a lighthearted way than for a programme where a journalist deals with them seriously. Surely it should be the other way around?Patrick WallaceLondon
• The Steve Bell cartoon featuring Jo Swinson sitting in the middle of the road waiting to be run over (If…, G2, 31 October) also implies that if you drive too close to the edge you will end up in the ditch, and that would apply to both of the two main tribes.Peter BaldwinNorth Walsham, Norfolk
• Where is Larry the cat? He has not been seen outside No 10, making his regular TV appearances, for some time now. Has he suffered Boris’s “dead in a ditch” fate? What role has Dilyn played in all this? I think we should be told – before 12 December.Wolf and Linda GruellichEdinburgh
• Unaware until too late that you need to display a pumpkin to have children calling at Halloween (they came last year), I waited with 38 chocolate bars to see the children’s costumes but had no callers.Helen EvansRuthin, Denbighshire

        
          • Join the debate – email 
        
        
          
            guardian.letters@theguardian.com
          
        
      

        
          • Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit 
        
        
          
            gu.com/letters
          
        
      

        
          • Do you have a photo you’d like to share with Guardian readers? 
        
        
          
            Click here
          
        
        
           to upload it and we’ll publish the best submissions in the letters spread of our print edition
        
      
