
# Arguing Liverpool players drained Aston Villa mentally says John McGinn

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:30:18+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arguing-liverpool-players-drained-aston-20806906)

Liverpool's "relentless" players were arguing with each other during their win over Aston Villa on Saturday, but Villa star John McGinn says they slowly wore their opposition down.
The Reds trailed 1-0 at Villa Park as the match entered the 87th minute, with a first half strike from Egyptian midfielder Trezeguet the difference.
However, a header from McGinn's Scotland international teammate Andy Robertson levelled the scores, before Sadio Mane's glancing header from a Trent Alexander-Arnold corner found the net in the 94th minute to spark delirious scenes in the away end .
McGinn says it could have all been different though.
 
“A lot of their players were arguing and you could tell they were uncomfortable in the first half," said the midfielder after the game, via the Liverpool Echo .
"When teams start arguing with each other you normally know you’ve got them but at the same time you have to respect they are such a good team, they just regroup, get together and go again.
"Unfortunately for us they did that."
 
McGinn added that it is Liverpool's "relentless" nature that sets them and title rivals Manchester City apart.
"You’re playing against the champions of Europe and they could be the champions of England this year," he continued.
"They don’t give up, they keep going and they probably tired us out too much right at the end.
“Chances were coming and we were just trying to keep them at bay but the ball just keeps coming back at you.
“It was two sloppy goals from our point of view but teams like Liverpool do that to you.
“They are relentless. It was the same with Man City last week, they just drain you mentally.
"You try your best to press them but they are top teams and full credit to them."
