
# Rangers sent transfer message as Jamie Carragher unleashes stunning Aston Villa rant

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-transfer-news-aston-villa-17199976)

Aston Villa fans have been reacting to Steven Gerrard's latest declaration that Rangers striker Alfredo Morelos is staying at Ibrox.
The Gers manager says there is no chance that the Colombian will be moving on in the summer amid continued speculation that Villa want to sign the hot-shot.
Morelos continued his excellent start to the season at the weekend, netting his 19th and 20th goals in Saturday's 5-2 Scottish League Cup semi-final defeat of Hearts.
He has scored eight goals in 11 Scottish Premiership matches this campaign, with Rangers level on 28 points with Celtic at the top of the League.
 
Villa make the short 21-mile trip to West Midlands rivals Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday (2pm) for their latest Premier League clash.
Dean Smith 's side will be hoping to put an end to their two-match losing run following defeats to Manchester City and Liverpool, the latter a gut-wrenching 2-1 defeat at Villa Park on Saturday.
Villa and Wolves are well-acquainted after their recent dalliances in the Championship, both sides earning promotion one year after the other back to the Premier League.
And now they will meet in the top flight for the first time since 2012, when Villa secured a 3-2 win at Molineux.
Read the full story HERE .
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
Villa’s Carabao Cup quarter-final against Liverpool has been selected for live TV coverage – despite concerns that the tie won’t take place.
The two clubs set up a final eight meeting with Villa beating Wolves and Liverpool winning against Arsenal last week.
It is currently scheduled to be played at Villa Park the week commencing 16 December – but that clashes with Liverpool’s Club World Cup commitments.
The Reds play in the last four of the competition in Qatar just two days later and Klopp has threatened to withdraw his team from the Carabao Cup if the Villa clash isn't re-arranged to a suitable date.
 
Former Liverpool defender Jamie Carragher has called for VAR to be scrapped after it was once again at the centre of several controversial incidents this weekend.
Among them was Roberto Firmino’s disallowed goal against Villa on Saturday, in Liverpool’s 2-1 victory over Dean Smith’s side.
Firmino was initially flagged offside on the field before the decision was checked, and upheld, by the VAR Martin Atkinson.
Footage showing Atkinson checking the decision by drawing a line leading up to Firmino’s armpit and another up to the knee of Tyrone Mings, who was the Villa player furthest back, has been widely criticised by pundits.
More on that HERE .
