
# 'Almost perfect' - Former West Brom ace delivers verdict on Albion's promotion prospects

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:55:29+00:00**

Author: **Chris Watson**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/west-brom-promotion-prospects-goodman-17201949)

Don Goodman believes his old club West Bromwich Albion will take some stopping in the Sky Bet Championship this season.
Albion returned to the top of the table last night courtesy of a 2-0 victory at rock bottom Stoke City .
Matt Phillips gave Slaven Bilic 's men an early lead, and substitute Hal Robson-Kanu added a second from the penalty spot after the break.
The result took the Baggies two points clear of closest challengers Preston North End, Leeds United and Swansea City - with almost a third of the campaign gone.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
Goodman, who scored 63 goals in 181 appearances for West Brom between 1987 and 1991, was co-commentator for the Stoke game on Sky Sports.
Asked if he thought his former team would take some stopping now, the 53-year-old replied: "Well, yes.
"You would suggest that anyone that finishes above them would be automatically promoted, you really would.
"(It was) an outstanding, almost perfect away display (against Stoke).
"They controlled the game pretty much from start to finish.
"They defended well and got a clean sheet, which will be very pleasing for Slaven Bilic.
"They're back on top."
Albion - unbeaten in five games since suffering their solitary league defeat this term at Leeds - are back in action on Saturday when they visit Hull City.
