
# NFL Home Underdogs Dominate Sunday Week 9

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jay Ginsbach**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jayginsbach/2019/11/05/nfl-home-underdogs-dominate-sunday-week-9/)

The start of November is the halfway point of the NFL season and just one team remains undefeated after the 49ers (8-0) beat the Cardinals 28-25 Thursday. The Cardinals (+10) covered as a home underdog with an 88-yard pass catch and run for a late touchdown in the final five minutes. Home underdogs dominated Sunday in Week 9 going 5-0 straight up (SU) and against the spread (ATS). Home teams overall cleaned up as well going 11-0 SU/ATS Sunday. One bettor at DraftKings mobile sportsbook cashed in for $20,584 on a $17.70 parlay bet taking all 11 home team to cover the point spread Sunday. Five of those teams were home underdogs including the Ravens (+3) who dominated the previously perfect Patriots (8-1) in a 37-20 win.
The barking ‘Dogs that took out many of the public’s bets in early action were the Chiefs (+4) over the Vikings 26-23 and the Dolphins (+3) picking up their first win of the season over the Jets, 26-18. The late afternoon games turned out to be some of the biggest bets in the sportsbooks favor, especially the Chargers (+4) over the Packers 26-11. The Broncos (+4) also beat the heavily-bet Browns 24-19 and the perfect day for home underdogs was completed when the Ravens (+3) ran over the Patriots. Baltimore had a week-high 210 yards rushing and teams that rushed for at least 150 yards went 6-1 SU and 7-0 ATS with only the Cardinals losing Thursday despite outrushing the 49ers 153-101. San Francisco is the No. 2 rushing team in the league averaging 171 per game. The Ravens lead the NFL in rushing with 205 yards per game including a league-best 5.5 yards per rush with dual-threat quarterback Lamar Jackson (+350) now the second favorite at DraftKings sportsbook behind Russell Wilson (+250) to win the NFL’s Most Valuable Player award.
Overall, home underdogs went 5-2 SU and 6-1 ATS in Week 9 with the Giants (+7.5) the only home underdog that did not cover the point spread in a 37-18 Monday night beatdown by Dallas. Most bettors recovered and cashed in on the Cowboys and over the total.
Pro Football Focus provides NFL Week 9 recaps for all 14 games with immediate takeaways and a detailed breakdown of the each weeks games most notable performances. Elite members enjoy PFF’s player grades and advanced statistics.
The best division in the NFL through eight weeks was the NFC North, but all four teams lost Sunday with the Packers (-4) and Vikings (-4) as favorites. The Bears (+4.5) and Lions (+3) as underdogs. Minnesota’s struggles on the road outdoors versus winning teams continued, 0-14 since 2014.
Jeff Davis, director of trading at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas for Caesars Entertainment sportsbooks told the Vegas Stats & Information Network (VSiN) that Sunday was “incredible, and the Packers versus Chargers game turned out to be our second-biggest win of the season.” He noted that “everybody” was betting on the Packers as the point spread rose to Green Bay -4.5 but never was in doubt as the Chargers pounded the Packers 26-11 with total yards in the LA Chargers favor 442 to 184.
More than 90% of the spread bets were on the Packers at most sports books including William Hill locations across America. William Hill had the most bets on the Packers, Browns and Patriots, who all lost SU and ATS as road favorites. The Packers and Browns also had the most money wagered on the point spread, providing William Hill and many other sportsbooks a very profitable Sunday as most bettors lost betting on the the high-profile games and favorites.
Nick Bogdanovich, director of trading for William Hill US, told VSiN “Green Bay was about as big a decision as you can have on a regular season game,” noting William Hill cashed in big with the Chargers win.
Not all was lost on betting favorites Sunday as the Bills and Eagles both won fairly easily with Buffalo winning 24-9 and holding the Redskins offense and first-time starting rookie quarterback Dwayne Haskins to 243 total yards and 12 first downs. The Eagles buried the Bears, who had just one first down and less than 10 yards offense in the first half in a 22-14 loss. Chicago finished with 10 first downs and 164 yards offense as QB Mitch Trubisky continued to struggle while completing just 10-of-21 passes for 125 yards against the Eagles.
Week 10 point spreads and totals are out along with a betting guide with game previews and analysis. William Hill Sportsbooks has you covered across the country with the growing legal U.S. sports betting market and from more than 100 sports betting locations across Nevada.
Home underdogs improved to 16-19 ATS this season but have been losing more often this year going 10-24-1 straight up. Week 10 has five more home underdogs including the Raiders (+1) Thursday night against the Chargers (4-5). The Raiders (4-4) play their final prime time game at the Coliseum in Oakland before moving to a new stadium in Las Vegas next year. The Raiders and fans in the Black Hole will be worth watching in prime time.
You can bet on it.
