
# Bulacan gunfight: Armed drug dealer dies, 19 arrested

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:28:52+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/provincial/bulacan-gunfight-armed-drug-dealer-dies-19-arrested)

The slain suspect identified as Allen Omila, a 42-year old jobless resident of no. 24 Seminary Road in Barangay Bahay Toro, Quezon City was killed in a shootout with members of the Drug Enforcement Unit of the Santa Maria Municipal Police Station in Barangay Guyong at 3:30 a.m. yesterday, said Bulacan Police Provincial Office director, Colonel Chito Bersaluna.
The official said that the suspect had just sold shabu to a poseur when he sensed the ongoing entrapment operation and pulled out a concealed firearm and began shooting at the undercover agent.
Back-up operatives returned fire killing the suspect on the spot. According to Santa Maria police chief, Lieutenant Col. Carl Omar Fiel, the slain suspect who is included in their watch list yielded 12 heat-sealed plastic sachets containing shabu, one caliber .45 pistol with serial no. 75124 with a magazine containing four live ammunition and the marked money he received from the poseur.
The other suspects were arrested in San Rafael, Santa Maria, Marilao, San Miguel, Plaridel and Bulakan municipalities and in San Jose del Monte  and Meycauayan cities.
Recovered from the suspects were 37 heat-sealed plastic sachets  containing suspected shabu and the buy-bust money. All arrested drug offenders are now facing charges for violation of Republic Act 9165 or the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
