
# IMF extends borrowing agreement terms of PHL

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:29:46+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/imf-extends-borrowing-agreement-terms-of-phl/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The Philippines is one of 40 countries which received a one-year extension on the terms of their bilateral borrowing agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 
In a statement on Wednesday, the IMF said it has extended the terms of the 2016 Borrowing Agreements between the IMF and 40 members, following approval by the IMF Executive Board and consents from all 40 creditors to a one-year extension of the terms of their respective agreements.
The Philippines, through the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), is a net creditor to the IMF with a bilateral agreement of $1 billion. 
The agreement will be effective through end-2020. 
The IMF said the extension of terms preserves the global monetary authority’s overall lending capacity of about $1 trillion for an additional year and is a prudent step to provide confidence to members. 
The move also “markets that the fund continues to have adequate resources to meet the potential needs of the membership.”
According to the IMF’s statement, the extension is a part of a broader package of actions on IMF resources and governance reform—including support for maintaining the IMF’s current resource envelope and considering a doubling of the New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) and a further temporary round of bilateral borrowing beyond 2020.
The IMF has entered into several rounds of bilateral borrowing agreements over the past decade to supplement its quota and NAB resources and meet the potential financing needs of its members. 
In 2016, in view of continued uncertainty in the global economy, the membership committed to maintain access to bilateral borrowing, as a third line of defense and under a revised governance framework, with an initial term through the end of 2019, extendable for a further year by the Executive Board and with creditors’ consents. 
The total commitments under the 2016 borrowing framework from 40 members amount to about $433 billion at end-September 2019 exchange rates.
