
# Top 20 most popular baby names for 2020 predicted in new list

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:38:02+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/top-20-most-popular-baby-3509793)

The name you choose your baby will define their character growing up.
Choosing the right name can be the most difficult thing you'll ever have to do - apart from giving birth, of course.
Baby name traditions come and go, but in a new list compiled by baby name website Nameberry some very out-there suggestions have been thrown into the mix.
The website has revealed its predictions for what could be the top 20 most popular baby names in 2020 and there are some interesting ones on the list.
And if you're struggling with picking a name for your unborn child, or are going to be thinking about it soon, the following list might help.
In order to create the top 20, the team at Nameberry work out which names in their database have seen the biggest increase in interest over the last year, reports the Mirror Online.
It seems parents are getting back in to old fashioned names like Pearl, which was a top 100 name from 1880 through the mid-1920s, when it started a long decline. But it's recently been making a big comeback.
Other names to make the cut take inspiration from pop culture events or celebrities, like Billie (Billie Eilish).
Nameberry says: "Our top baby names are a radical departure from the official national list, which suffers from a considerable time lag. We won't know which names were  really  used the most often for babies in 2020 until May of 2021.
"The names here offer baby namers a heads up on trends and specific names destined to get more popular in 2020 and beyond."
1. Adah
2. Reese
3. Mika
4. Paisley
5. Amina
6. Teagan
7. Nova
8. Aura
9. Pearl
10. Billie
1. Austin
2. Alva
3. Acacius
4. Tate
5. Diego
6. Easton
7. Lucius
8. Cash
9. Ash
10. Luca

        Did your baby's name make the list? Let us know in the comments below.
      
