
# My Little Pony fanatic convinces partner to buy new house to hold £8k collection

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:17:16+00:00**

Author: **Felicity Cross, Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/little-pony-fanatic-convinces-partner-20800563)

A My Little Pony fan has found a new home that can holld her £8,000 toy collections thanks to her husband.
Miranda Worby, 36, managed to convince her boyfriend to buy a new house so she could have a display room for her collection of plastic ponies.
She has been a fan of the colourful creatures since the age of four and now has more than 2,000 of them, reports the Daily Star .
Over the years Miranda has driven thousands of miles to get her hands on additions to her display.
 
She said: “I know a 36-year-old woman collecting toys might seem a bit crazy, but I don’t care. I go silly for those fillies."
While her partner Ian Langston, 58, supports her unusual hobby, he had a long face when Miranda told him they needed to move house so she could have space for her extensive collection.
Designer Miranda said: "Ian doesn’t really get it, but he does his best and has driven me miles to pick up ponies.
"When I told him we needed to move house I could tell he thought I was horsing around. I loved our three bedroom semi. We’d been there for three years and had no plans to move. But then the boxes started piling up.
"I was desperate for somewhere with space for a whole room dedicated to my My Little Ponies, so they could all be displayed and not packed away.
"It was tough convincing Ian to sell up but he agreed for a quiet life."
Miranda went on: "Now I’m so happy with my display room.
"It’s where I show off all my ponies – from my most expensive, Mimic, which set me back £120, to a mint-in-box pony which I picked up for only £5."
Miranda says her 'pony room' is the mane attraction at her new pad in Lowestoft, Suffolk.
She added: "Some people must have thought I was mad."
"But all my family and friends are really supportive, especially Ian.
