
# Downs Remain Top, Bucs Sink Stellies

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/multichoice-diski-challenge/multichoice-diski-challenge-wrap-02-03-november-2019/666643)


        Orlando Pirates 2-0 Stellenbosch FC
      
Orlando Pirates got back to winning ways with a 2-0 victory over Stellenbosch FC on Saturday afternoon at Rand Stadium.
Lesiba Mahlong and Sifiso Luthuli scored in either half to propel Pirates up to fourth on the table.

        SuperSport United 0-2 Highlands Park
      
SuperSport United lost their second match in a row after going down 2-0 to Highlands Park on Saturday morning at Lucas Moripe Stadium.
Camren Ashby and Lucky Mdingi netted for the Lions of the North.

        Kaizer Chiefs 1-1 Baroka FC
      
Kaizer Chiefs dropped points for the second successive match after being held to a 1-1 draw by Baroka FC.
Bakgaga broke the deadlock in the 24th minute but Amakhosi levelled matters six minutes later from the penalty spot.

        Mamelodi Sundowns 1-0 Maritzburg United
      
Mamelodi Sundowns maintained their position at the top of the table after edging Maritzburg United 1-0 on Sunday morning at Lucas Moripe Stadium.
The Brazilians broke the deadlock with eight minutes remaining of the first stanza and the goal was enough to hand them the three points.

        Other Results:
      
Chippa United 3-2 Bloemfontein Celtic Polokwane City 0-0 AmaZulu Golden Arrows 4-0 Black Leopards Cape Town City 1-2 Bidvest Wits
