
# Futures gain on hopes of US-China trade deal

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:45:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/business/futures-gain-on-hopes-of-us-china-trade-deal-12062564?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

U.S. stock index futures rose on Monday, buoyed by hopes of a U.S.-China trade deal and an improving domestic economy that led the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to record highs last week.
REUTERS: U.S. stock index futures rose on Monday, buoyed by hopes of a U.S.-China trade deal and an improving domestic economy that led the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to record highs last week.
Washington and Beijing said on Friday they had made progress in defusing an economically damaging trade war, with U.S. officials indicating that a deal could be signed this month.
Adding to the optimism, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Sunday licenses for U.S. companies to sell components to China's Huawei Technologies Co would come "very shortly".
Trade sensitive chipmakers including Intel Corp , Micron Tech , Qualcomm Inc and Nvidia Corp rose between 0.8per cent and 1.4per cent in premarket trading.
U.S.-listed Chinese stocks such as online games and media provider NetEase Inc , internet search provider Baidu Inc and e-commerce firm JD.Com were also up about 1per cent.
The S&P 500 and Dow Jones indexes ended Friday with their best week in nearly two months after data showed U.S. jobs growth slowed less than expected in October, easing concerns about the fallout of the trade war on domestic economy.
Fresh data on Monday is expected to show U.S. factory orders falling 0.5per cent in September compared to a 0.1per cent drop in August.
At 7:29 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were up 124 points, or 0.45per cent. S&P 500 e-minis were up 14.25 points, or 0.47per cent and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 46 points, or 0.56per cent.
Under Armour Inc fell 11.6per cent as it lowered its full-year revenue forecast for a second straight time, a day after it confirmed a federal investigation on its accounting practices.
McDonald's Corp fell 2per cent after the fast-food giant dismissed Chief Executive Steve Easterbrook over a recent consensual relationship with an employee, which the board determined violated company policy.
U.S.-listed shares of Tesla rival Nio Inc rose 7per cent as it reported a 25per cent jump in vehicle deliveries in October. With nearly 363,000 shares traded before the bell, it was among the most actively-traded U.S. stocks.
(Reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru)
