
# Download an Android 10 custom ROM for the ASUS ZenFone Max Pro M2, Nokia 6.1/6.1 Plus, Nokia 7 Plus, Moto G5 Plus, and HTC One M9

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:14:00+00:00**

Author: **Pranob Mehrotra**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/download-android-10-custom-rom-asus-zenfone-max-pro-m2-nokia-6-1-6-1-plus-nokia-7-plus-moto-g5-plus-htc-one-m9/)

Back in September, Google released the Android 10 source code and that kickstarted the custom ROM development here on XDA. Since then, we’ve seen several devices receive Android 10 based custom ROMs, including the Xiaomi Redmi 2, Moto G2015, Sony Xperia Z3 Compact, HTC 10, HTC One M8, etc. Most recently, the OnePlus 3/3T, Xiaomi Mi Pad 4, Mi 6X, Huawei P Smart 2018, Galaxy A70 and Xperia XA2 Ultra received their first Android 10 based ROMs. And now, six more devices have joined the list. These include the Asus ZenFone Max Pro M2, Nokia 6.1, 6.1 Plus, Nokia 7 Plus, Moto G5 Plus, and the HTC One M9.
One of the most popular budget devices from Asus — the ZenFone Max Pro M2 — has now received a build of SuperiorOS Phoenix based on Android 10. The AOSP-based custom ROM offers a near-stock Android experience with just the essential customization options. The ROM seems to be a stable release, however, some users have reported network issues, so I wouldn’t recommend it using on your daily driver.

        
          SuperiorOS Phoenix for the Asus ZenFone Max Pro M2
        
      

        
          Asus ZenFone Max Pro M2 XDA Forums
        
      
HMD Global’s Nokia is known for offering a clean stock Android experience on its devices and the stock ROM on the Nokia 6.1 is no different. But if you want to experience Android like you would on a Pixel device, you can now flash the unofficial Pixel experience ROM on your phone. The Android 10 based custom ROM includes all Google apps and Pixel goodies like the Pixel launcher, wallpapers, icons, fonts, and boot animation.

        
          Pixel Experience ROM for the Nokia 6.1
        
      

        
          Nokia 6.1 XDA Forums
        
      
The Nokia 6.1 Plus, or the Nokia X6 in some markets, has also received an unofficial build of the Pixel Experience ROM. Much like the build for the Nokia 6.1, this Android 10 build features all Google apps and Pixel exclusive features. While the custom ROM had some issues on its initial release, the developer has already gone ahead and addressed these issues. Flash the Pixel Experience ROM on your device by following the link below.

        
          Pixel Experience ROM for the Nokia 6.1 Plus
        
      

        
          Nokia 6.1 Plus XDA Forums
        
      
Much like the Nokia 6.1 and Nokia 6.1 Plus, the Nokia 7 Plus has received its first taste of Android 10 with the Pixel Experience ROM. As with the other two builds, this AOSP based custom ROM packs in all Google apps and Pixel exclusive features, including the launcher, wallpapers, icons, fonts, and boot animation. But before you go ahead and flash it on your phone, do note that you might encounter issues using Bluetooth headsets with this build.

        
          Pixel Experience ROM for the Nokia 7 Plus
        
      

        
          Nokia 7 Plus XDA Forums
        
      
The Moto G5 Plus, which is arguably the most popular device in the Moto G series, has also been upgraded to Android 10. If you still have a G5 Plus lying around, you can now flash the ArrowOS official beta based on Android 10 on your phone. The AOSP/CAF based ROM offers a clean stock Android experience, but it still has a couple of bugs that need to be ironed out. Try it out on your Moto G5 Plus by following the link below.

        
          ArrowOS for the Moto G5 Plus
        
      

        
          Moto G5 Plus XDA Forums
        
      
It’s great to see that development for the HTC One M9, which was released back in 2015, is still on full swing. The device has now received an unofficial build of LineageOS 17.0, adding on to the vast number of devices to receive LineageOS builds based on Android 10. The current release works wonderfully, for the most part, but you won’t be able to use the FM radio if you flash it in its current state. Give your HTC One M9 a new lease of life with LineageOS 17.0 by following the link below.

        
          LineageOS 17.0 for the HTC One M9
        
      

        
          HTC One M9 XDA Forums
        
      
