
# Mohamed Salah has become obsessed by goals, says ex-Liverpool ace Michael Owen

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:40:09+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mohamed-salah-become-obsessed-goals-20820809)

Mohamed Salah has become "obsessed by goals", according to former Liverpool striker Michael Owen.
And the ex-England star believes Salah's success has transformed his mindset and style of play since he first arrived in England.
Salah has come in for criticism for being greedy in front of goal at times this season, including a high-profile row with team-mate Sadio Mane which has since been resolved.
And Owen, known for his prolific goalscoring during his stint at Anfield, outlined the "intriguing" transformation of the Egyptian ace after his performance against Genk in the Champions League.
Salah was unable to get on the scoresheet in a 2-1 win as he took a number of efforts in a bid to get back firing after scoring just five Premier League goals in 10 games so far this season, a low return by his remarkably high standards.
Owen told BT Sport: "The way I read his game is I think you can tell his game has changed over the years.
"Five years ago, watching him play, he would be beating players out wide, he'd be laying balls on.
"He got the assist tonight, but he just looks to me nowadays like a really, really hungry player for goals, almost to the state where he's obsessed by goals.
"That's definitely developed over the years with him. He never used to be obsessed with goals.
"But now he's getting a taste of it. Now he's won Golden Boots, now he's been the main man, it's almost as if he feels a huge pressure to score all the time.
"That's how I read him when I watch him play. I never, ever think he's going to pass in front of goal, it's almost as if he's got a one-track mind.
"There's nothing wrong with that, it's certainly not a criticism, it's just intriguing how he's evolved over the years into being this real hungry goal-getter now.
"Five years he certainly wasn't like that, and now you're watching him thinking 'wow, he's just zoned in on scoring goals'. He's such a goal-getter."
