
# Tejasvi, Kadugodi residents want Palike to respond to complaints

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Reya Mehrotra**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/tejasvi-kadugodi-residents-want-palike-to-respond-to-complaints/articleshow/71911543.cms)

Amonth from now, Kadugodi residents will keep a stern eye on Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) complaint-solving efficiency. BBMP’s Sahaaya app, created by the agency for people to post their complaints on, has been highly criticised as many a time complaints are closed without being addressed or not attended to at all. Amit Sharma, a resident of Ward 83 has launched a movement on tracking the progress of the app. Amit said, “I have informed my ward to send a screenshot to me when anyone lodges a complaint on the BBMP Sahaaya app. After a month, I will start checking on the status of these complaints. Last year, I had filed a complaint for bad roads in Kadugodi and the complaint is still open a year later.” He plans to collect the data after a month and present it to the BBMP officials during the ward committee meeting. On Monday, Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya also highlighted the poor response to the citizens’ complaints. At a BBMP South Zone meeting, he asked the officials to introduce a performance review mechanism for themselves. He later said during the meeting, “The corporators will give a list of issues to the BBMP Commissioner and the special commissioner for immediate action. The fact that hundreds of aggrieved citizens send civic complaints to the MP every single day just shows the lethargic response by BBMP officials. We need to make them more accountable and responsible for the upkeep of our city,” he said.
