
# Donald Cerrone texts Dana White about potential Conor McGregor fight

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:13:58+00:00**

Author: **James Whaling, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/james-whaling/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/donald-cerrone-texts-dana-white-20801495)

Donald Cerrone had a very simple message for UFC supremo Dana White regarding a potential bout with Conor McGregor .
The Irishman confirmed last month he is set to return to the Octagon in the new year, pencilling in a January 18 date in Las Vegas.
Speculation has been rife over the identity of his opponent - with Cerrone the favourite to face him in Sin City.
And 'Cowboy' text White over the bout - saying: "I hope this is true."
McGregor has been inactive since being choked out by Khabib Nermagomedov last October.
He plans on fighting three times next year - against Cerrone, Jorge Masvidal - who beat Nate Diaz on Saturday night - and a rematch with Nurmagomedovin Moscow.
 
Coach John Kavanagh told ESPN: "Like (UFC president) Dana [White] said nothing is 100 per cent until all contracts are signed. I do, as far as I am aware all parties have agreed more or less in principle.
"There may be a few kinks to be ironed out. But, as far as I am aware, hopefully, an announcement is imminent.
“I’m just happy to see him back competing and is in a great mindset. We are training away, chipping away.
It is 11 weeks tomorrow and ticking all the boxes. I can’t wait for the announcement so we can be full steam ahead.
"But, I am sure it is, I actually had in my head maybe during this event they are going to do an ad or something, I don’t know, maybe that is coming.
"I hope so, I hope so. Actions not words so let’s just do it in 2020. I feel I’ve been talking about it for two years or something.
"He is very pumped up, I like how is talking about it being a season and has three fights in mind. First on January 18, then April, then September.
"I haven’t heard that type of very structured talk for him in a long time. But, let’s do actions not words."
