
# Cole Anthony Sets North Carolina, ACC Records In College Debut

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Zagoria**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamzagoria/2019/11/06/cole-anthony-sets-north-carolina-acc-records-in-college-debut/)

One night after Kentucky freshman guard Tyrese Maxey stole the national headlines in his team’s win over No. 1 Michigan State, Cole Anthony made his own mark on college basketball.
With his father, former NBA point guard and current NBA analyst Greg Anthony in the building, the 6-foot-3 Anthony set North Carolina and ACC records by putting up 34 points, 11 rebounds and 5 assists in North Carolina’s 76-65 win over rival Notre Dame. Anthony, a New York City native who spent last season at famed Oak Hill Academy (VA), drained six 3-pointers in his debut.
Anthony’s scoring output was the highest ever by a North Carolina freshman in a debut. To put that in perspective, that means Anthony scored more in his debut than James Worthy, Michael Jordan, Vince Carter, Tyler Hansbrough or anyone else in program history.
He also tied for the third-most points by a freshman in North Carolina history, and became the first ACC freshman with 30, 10 and 5 in a debut in the last 20 seasons.
“Sometimes, I used to say, Tyler Hansbrough carried us," UNC coach Roy Williams told reporters. “Cole Anthony carried us tonight. ... That was pretty impressive, to say the least."
Anthony, who was named to the Naismith Watch List, began the game wearing goggles but then took them off because he said they impacted his depth perception.
"It's cool, I'm going to — not celebrate, but be happy about it a little bit tonight, give myself a little pat on the back," Anthony told reporters. "But we've got practice tomorrow. We've got to lock back in. We've got a game on Friday."
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey is familiar with Anthony, having recruited him heavily before Anthony chose North Carolina in April over Oregon, Georgetown and Notre Dame.
He effectively replaced Coby White, who is now a rookie with the Chicago Bulls.
“Cole is the consummate point guard for today's game," legendary Oak Hill coach Steve Smith said when Anthony committed. "He is a scoring point guard. He thrives in transition with tremendous court vision and awareness. He can play equally as well in the half court. He defends his position and I have never coached a point guard that rebounds the ball the way he does. How many point guards average as many rebounds as they do assists? Cole does!"
Now Anthony is a projected top-5 pick in the 2020 NBA Draft and already point guard-starved teams like the Knicks are dreaming of “getting in a hole to land Cole.” The Knicks dropped to 1-7 after Wednesday’s loss in Detroit.
