
# Asda's 2019 Christmas advert will warm hearts in the run up to the big day

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/asdas-2019-christmas-advert-warm-20790529)

Asda is focusing in on people who make Christmas extra special with their festive advert this year.
The giant supermarket's 2019 Christmas commercial is being unveiled on Saturday night at 8:45pm on ITV and centres on people going the extra mile to bring festive magic and joy.
The two-minute creation, is titled ‘Let’s make Christmas Extra Special' which is set to a live orchestral performance of ‘Lighting Up Christmas’ composed by Rohan Stevenson and James Radford, tells the story of a little girl name Tilly on a mission to spread yuletide cheer.
Sweet Tilly is seen walking home on a winters night alongside her family before looking up and watching the Northern lights dancing through the sky.
 
Recalling something her grandfather told her, she plans a way to capture the Christmas magic and does so by making a contraption out of a number of household goods that she uses to reach up into the atmosphere to scoop up the colourful lights.
She then goes on to sprinkle the magic around her village, alongside her brother, which transforms the town into a winter wonderland.
 
Viewers will see an extraordinary Christmas tree - fully decked - sprout up from the ground as well as man's head transform into that of a cheeky snowman.
Tilly also sprinkles a house which then turns into an epic gingerbread house and the streets are illuminated by elaborate lights and giant candy canes line the pavement.
 
 
The duo return home and discover the magic is nearly all gone as Tilly heads to bed her brother sneaks into her room to leave the jar - which he has refilled  - next to her bed before throwing some magic into the air in order to coat her room with snowflakes.
The story reminds TV watchers that acts of kindness and generosity around Christmastime can make the holiday extra special.
Asda’s Chief Customer Officer Andy Murray said ahead of the advert release: “We truly believe that with great quality products at leading price points; everybody can have an extra special Christmas with Asda.
“We know the most important thing to our customers at Christmas is spending time with family and friends. These are the people who make Christmas special and they’re willing to go the extra mile to make sure the occasion is truly magical.
“This generosity is reflected through our whole Christmas campaign this year, from the wonderful spirit of Tilly and Jack in our ad to a beautiful digital storybook of ‘Santa’s Leftover Magic’ that has been created in support of our Fight Hunger Create Change Initiative. We have also doubled donations from our Asda Foundation to over £1m to support good causes over the next three months. This investment will see 1500 charities across the country benefiting from additional funding this festive season”
