
# Conor McGregor vs Donald Cerrone could be announced tonight at UFC 244

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:46:21+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/conor-mcgregor-vs-donald-cerrone-20795094)

Conor McGregor's coach believes the star's fight against Donald Cerrone could be announced tonight.
The Irishman has not fought since he was choked out by Khabib Nurmagomedov in their lightweight title fight last October.
But he is ready to end his self-imposed exile on January 18 with Cerrone set to be confirmed as his opponent.
And McGregor's long-time trainer John Kavanagh speculated that the bout could be announced during UFC 244.
Nate Diaz takes on Jorge Masvidal in the main event at Madison Square Garden.
And Kavanagh told ESPN: "Like (UFC president) Dana [White] said nothing is 100 per cent until all contracts are signed. I do, as far as I am aware all parties have agreed more or less in principle.
"There may be a few kinks to be ironed out. But, as far as I am aware, hopefully, an announcement is imminent.
"I'm just happy to see him back competing and is in a great mindset. We are training away, chipping away.
"It is 11 weeks tomorrow and ticking all the boxes. I can't wait for the announcement so we can be full steam ahead.
"But, I am sure it is, I actually had in my head maybe during this event [UFC 244] they are going to do an ad or something, I don’t know, maybe that is coming."
McGregor announced his comeback at a press conference in Moscow last week and said he plans to fight three times in 2020.
He said: "I would like to announce to the public, the return of the 'Notorious' Conor McGregor will take place on January 18 in the T Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada. So that is my comeback fight.
"It is 12 weeks this Saturday, I'm in prime physical condition.
"Ask the UFC who my opponent is because I do not give a f*** who the opponent is."
"That will be the beginning of my season. I will then look to compete against the winner of Nate Diaz-Jorge Masvidal.
"Obviously I have history with Nate Diaz, we are set to make the trilogy bout. We will see how it goes. I feel Nate will get the better of that one.
"Then I will seek the Moscow bout and it will be against the winner of Tony Ferguson and Khabib Nurmagomedov.
"We want this bout in Moscow. The people in Russia deserve this bout to take place. The people of the world deserve this bout to take place.
"There is an inevitable rematch, it is a rematch that I will come in sharp, fresh. I will have no injuries, I will have no alcohol, I will have no outside influences, I will be fully focused, exactly what the people deserve. And we will settle it once and for all."
