
# This Week In XR: PTC Acquires Onshape, Snap Intros 3D Painting

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Charlie Fink**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/charliefink/2019/11/01/this-week-in-xr-ptc-acquires-onshape-snap-intros-3d-painting/)

We’re at the 2nd annual VRARA Global Summit in Vancouver today, listening to keynotes from XR Industry leaders, which will be posted on You Tube a few week after the conclusion of the show. Vancouver has the second largest XR workforce in the world.
PTC acquires OnShape for $470 Million. OnShape is a computer aided design (CAD) software company. PTC says the acquisition will compliment their existing CAD business and integrate with its Vuforia AR platform, such as using AR to visualize CAD drawings.
Oculus to announce new policy for supporting Oculus Quests in location based entertainment. Revealed during IEE ‘19, this November Oculus will make a major step towards location based entertainment venues utilizing the Oculus Quest headset. 
Blippar announces new CEO: Faisal Galaria. Galaria has previous successes with companies like Spotify, Skype and Kayak. Blippar is focused on its AR creation and publishing platform Blippbuilder designed to make AR content creation accessible with “no coding required”. 
SnapChat adds new 3D paint feature. Through their phone’s camera, SnapChat users can now paint in 3D space. Whether it’s to draw a face on their face, or draw something in world space, users can find the new 3D paint feature in the Create section of the AR Bar.
Zero Latency’s Gen2 version of their free-roaming PC backpack and headset supplied through their global partnership with HP, Microsoft and Intel has cut its costs in half. The company celebrating the latest installations of their platform in North America, Europe and Australasia, adding to its 36 installations globally with their October '19 site deployments in the Gold Coast/Australia, London Wembley and Nantes/France, projecting to hit 46 sites by Christmas this year. From Kevin Williams’ Stinger Report.
Magic Leap launches Magic Leap Toolkit, and announces Magicverse SDK for Q1 2020. The Magic Leap Toolkit is a Unity package containing all the major components necessary to build experiences for the Magic Leap platform using Unity. The Magicverse SDK was recently announced by Omar Khan at the Future Investment Initiative conference, and is said to allow developers to build apps that will work between the Magic Leap One and other mobile devices such as Android and iOS.
La-Z-Boy doubles down on 3D visualizations for its products. In a partnership with Marxent, La-Z-Boy is launching VR visualizations of its products for use by sales associates and designers. La-Z-Boy and Maxent have previously partnered on 3D visualization using augmented reality and 3D room planning. Now when you’re shopping for a big comfy chair, you can see it first in virtual reality using one of HTC Vive’s headsets.

        Read of the Week:
      
AR Insider’s Mike Boland puts the clues together to predict the direction of Apple’s much-anticipated AR glasses.

        Our Stories Last Week:
      
