
# Argos launches Nintendo Switch Lite deal for £180

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:18:55+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hurrell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/argos-launches-nintendo-switch-lite-17202250)

Black Friday has not arrived yet but Argos has joined a price war on the Nintendo Switch gaming console.
Last week Very launched a bundle deal to get the Nintendo Switch for less than £300 with a game and now Argos has joined the battle by offering the Lite version of the device for under £200.
The Nintendo Switch Lite is a stripped-down version of the system and the main difference is that it cannot be played on TV. Instead it is a portable version offering all of the same games as the standard Switch.
Argos has cut the price of the Nintendo Switch Lite for just £199 via its eBay store but users of deals website HotUKDeals have found you can get a further 10% off using the code PRISTINE.
The code brings the price of the Switch Lite down to just £179.99, which makes it one of the cheapest deals around in the run up to Black Friday.
 
It compares to the Currys PC World, where the Nintendo Switch Lite is currently £219 - but that deal does come with Mario Kart 8. It stocks the Nintendo Switch Lite without any games for £199.99.
Very is also selling the Nintendo Switch Lite for £199.99 while Amazon has the turquoise version for £197 for Prime members with next day shipping.
For those who want the full Nintendo Switch, Very is selling a Nintendo Switch grey console with Lego Move 2, Lego DC Super Villians and Lego Worlds for just £329.99 online, which is down from £369.99.
The £40 saving makes it one of the best Nintendo Switch bundle deals on the market today and the retailer is also offering ways to save an extra £50 with a discount code that can be found on the deal page, bringing the overall price down to £280.
You can get the deal here until 7 November.
