
# Kubu shines as Kabras crack Mwamba

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:53:20+00:00**

Author: **ALEX ISABOKE**

Original: [Capital Sports](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2019/11/02/kubu-shines-as-kabras-crack-mwamba/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 2 – Former champions Kabras Rugby Club put up a superb second half display to to see off Mwamba 43-9 at the Railways Club to maintain a perfect start and lead in the 2019/20 Kenya Cup season.
      
In other results, Kenya Harlequin lost 20-32 to defending champions KCB, Western Bulls fell 21-27 to Oilers, Kisumu stunned Nondies 19-17, Homeboyz RFC were 15-10 winners over Nakuru while Impala were the biggest winners of the weekend, whitewashing Kenyatta Universty’s Blakblad 57-9.
Kabras grounded five tries and converted a drop goal to boss the standing with 10 points after two rounds of the games.
New signing Lawi Buyachi got the Sugar Millers underway with his debut try at the club that was successfully converted to take an early 7-0 lead.
Mwamba scored two quick penalties to narrow on Kabras’ with Brian Kivasia booting in between the sticks before he added another one to see Kulabu cut Kabras’ lead to a single point.
However, Kabras dotted a second converted try that guaranteed them a 14-6 lead at the interval.
On resumption, Kabras restarted on a high, scoring a third converted try before Kulabu responded with a penalty kick that came off an infringement by Kabras.
Jone Kubu sneaked in a drop goal to extend Kabras’ lead to 24-9 before he was at it again, this time going over after dancing through the Mwamba defense before setting up his support player to land a center post try as he converted it.
Mwamba were punished for their mistakes when Tony Omondi’s mis-kick resulted in Kabras counter attack and extending their lead to 36-9 following a missed conversion before the Western Kenya based side landed their final try in the match and seal it off with a conversion.

        -Results-
      
Mwamba 9 – Kabras 43
Quins 20 – KCB 32
Bulls 21 – Oilers 27
Impala 57 – Blakblad 9
Nakuru 10 – Homeboyz 15
Kisumu 19 – Nondies 17
(Visited 18 times, 1 visits today)
