
# An insider just let slip how many kids William and Kate are planning on having

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:15:30+00:00**

Author: **Bashiera Parker (@bparks_)**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/Royal-News/an-insider-just-let-slip-how-many-kids-william-and-kate-are-planning-on-having-20191101)

Cape Town – Right off the bat of their tour of Pakistan, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge return to George, Charlotte and Louis – even going Halloween shopping.
Kate was spotted at Sainsbury's in Hardwick Industrial Estate with the kids and a bodyguard, reports Harper's BAZAAR. According to other shoppers, she was looking for Halloween candy and costumes for the kids.
Though motherhood is no easy feat, Kate said, "At times it has also been a huge challenge, even for me who has support at home that most mothers do not. But she also admitted, "Becoming a mother has been such a rewarding and wonderful experience."
And now, according to a royal insider, the duchess wouldn't mind doing it all over again.
A source told US Weekly, Kate "would love to have one more child".
Speaking of George, Charlotte and Louis, they also added, "They love playing together and being creative. Painting, baking and building things are all activities they enjoy, and now that Louis' a bit older, he gets involved too.
"Charlotte's extremely confident and loves attention, whereas George is more reserved, although he is starting to come out of his shell. George is always looking out for his younger brother and sister and is already showing traits of making an excellent leader."

        (Photo: Splash)
      
