
# Classic Maps Returning To Modern Warfare, According To Leak

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:36:59+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Connolly**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/gaming/classic-maps-returning-to-modern-warfare-according-to-leak/)


        Calling all Call of Duty fans: new leaks for Modern Warfare suggest players will be served a heavy dose of nostalgia with the game’s next DLC.
      
Since the game’s release last month, it’s exceeded all expectations – surpassing $600 million in sales during its launch weekend alone.
And now it seems players are set to get more than they bargained for with Modern Warfare‘s next downloadable content, with a new leak suggesting developers Infinity Ward are set to take players right back to the game’s roots.
As per e-sports news site Dexerto, a new leak via YouTuber ‘TheGamingRevolution’ claims many of our favourite maps from the franchise are set to return.
It’s no secret that players have long since been demanding the revival of the likes of the 1v1 arena Rust, the battlefield of Scrapyard, the claustrophobic setting of Vacant and the nostalgic scenes of Terminal.
Basically, if it turns out to be true, this could be one of the biggest leaks in the game’s history – with all maps expected to make a massive comeback in the latest iteration of Call of Duty.
Now, it’s important to note that this leak is just that – a leak – and that no official confirmation has come from the developers of the game. However, the account behind the leak is a renowned (and usually accurate) source, so it’s certainly worth bearing in mind.
