
# My Chemical Romance confirm three more shows as part of live comeback

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:19:52+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/my-chemical-romance-confirm-two-more-shows-as-part-of-comeback-2564849)


        Following on from news of their upcoming LA date
      
My Chemical Romance have announced further shows as part of their long-awaited live comeback.
The emo icons finally confirmed their much-rumoured reunion last week (October 31), announcing that they will perform together for the first time since 2012. MCR’s first comeback show will take place at Los Angeles’ Shrine Expo Hall venue on December 20.
Now, Gerard Way and co. have shared details of three shows scheduled for 2020. Posting on their social media channels this evening (November 5), the band announced they will be playing in Australia, New Zealand and Japan early next year.
My Chemical Romance will play at The Outer Fields at Western Springs Stadium in Auckland on March 25, along with special guests Jimmy Eat World, Midnight Youth, and Miss June.
This performance will follow on from a headline appearance at Download Festival Australia, which will be held in Sydney and Melbourne on March 20/21. They top the bill alongside Deftones and Jimmy Eat World for what’s set to be their only Australian dates in 2020.
They then head over to headline Download Japan on Sunday March 29 along with The Offspring, Evanescence and many more.
Find more information and links to buy tickets in the below tweets.
