
# Lufthansa strike update as 1,300 flights cancelled ahead of walkouts this week

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:44:22+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/news/lufthansa-strike-update-1300-flights-20826492)

Lufthansa passengers could face disruption to their travel plans this week after members of cabin crew for the airline are set to walkout for 48 hours.
Cabin crew staff who are members of German union UFO are planning strikes this week following a dispute with the airline over pay and working conditions.
The airline did seek an injunction in a bid to block the strikes from going ahead, but on Wednesday a court ruled that the walkouts were lawful and could therefore progress as planned.
The planned strikes are set to cause disruption to the airline's schedule.
1,300 flights have already been cancelled across the two days in preparation for the industrial action - 700 on Thursday and 600 on Friday - meaning that 180,000 passengers are set to be affected.
The airline has said it is already offering affected passengers the option to rebook onto alternative flights.
We take a look at everything you need to know about the strikes below including the strike dates, what to do if you're affected and your rights to compensation.
Check out the guide below...
The walkouts are planned for Thursday 7th November and Friday 8th November.
Lufthansa has said that affected passengers will be advised if their flight has been cancelled via text message or email - but if you are due to fly on Thursday or Friday you should check your flight status on your booking before you set off.
The airline is offering all affected passengers the option to rebook onto an alternative flight for free - the airline said it aimed to have all passengers rebooked by the end of Wednesday evening.
If your flight has not been cancelled but you would prefer not to travel, the airline is also offering you a free rebooking if you are booked on a flight to/from Frankfurt or Munich on the 7th or 8th November.
The airline is also offering free rebookings to those whose ticket was issued on and before Friday 4th November.
These rebookings can be done for flights on the same route up to (and including) the 15th November.
Travelling on a domestic Germany flight? You can exchange your flight ticket for a train ticket free of charge.
You can find out more on the airline's dedicated help page for passengers who may be affected by the industrial action.

        Your rights to compensation
      
If your flight is delayed by more than two hours, the airline must provide you with some assistance such as a reasonable amount of food and drink, a way to communicate and sometimes accommodation if you're delayed overnight. However, you won't be entitled to compensation.
If your flight is delayed by over three hours, you're entitled to all of the same assistance as delays of over two hours, except that you can also claim up to €250 under EU law.
We have a dedicated guide on your rights to compensation if your flight is cancelled because of strikes.
You can also find out more about claiming compensation on the Civil Aviation Authority website .
