
# Ping cites ‘most behaved’ House leaders

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:39:39+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/04/ping-cites-most-behaved-house-leaders/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
CITING their “most behaved” House counterparts for early endorsement of the national budget for 2020 and the absence—thus far—of indications of pork barrel, a Senate leader is confident that Congress can meet its schedule for next year’s appropriations law, thus averting a repeat of the disastrous 2019 standoff.
Sen. Panfilo Lacson, one of the vice chairmen of the Senate Finance committee in charge of shepherding the budget bill, credited the leadership of Speaker Alan Peter Cayetano with the “so-far” pork-less measure.
Lacson, who has gone over budgets in recent years with a fine-toothed comb to ferret out pork barrel, said the House appropriations version they received in early October indeed contained —as claimed by House leaders —purely “institutional amendments” of the National Expenditure Program (NEP) submitted by the Executive branch. These institutional augmentations of over P9 billion were a far cry, Lacson said, from the P705-billion-plus additions that both chambers quarreled about in the 2019 budget, delaying it for nearly five months and hurting economic growth.
Lacson, in a radio interview, said on Sunday they don’t worry that government may again need to work under a reenacted budget by January if Congress fails to pass the final version of the budget bill before lawmakers adjourn for their year-end recess from December 21, 2019, to January 19, 2020.
“It’s still a go. But my subcommittee has already submitted our report to the main committee, within one week after we went on break, I think before October 10. They’re waiting for the others, and only then can Senator Angara, the Finance committee chairman, sponsor it on the floor,” Lacson said.
He said Angara is targeting the second week of November to present the committee-endorsed 2020 budget bill for plenary deliberations and approval before senators adjourn for the Christmas break. “By the second week [of November] because they’re waiting for the other vice chairmen to submit their committee report,” Lacson said, when asked about the timeline.
One thing they still have to clarify in the Senate plenary deliberations, Lacson said, are certain provisions in the NEP which were left untouched in the House of Representatives, “where it was unclear where the funds would go.” These unclear items, added Lacson, amount to “more or less…P20 billion.”
The funds are parked with the Department of the Interior and Local Government and Department of Public Works and Highways.
Asked if he found any pork barrel allocation inserted in the House-approved version of the budget bill during the initial Senate review of the annual money measure, Lacson replied: “In fairness to the present House of Representatives, [this is probably the] most behaved counterparts [we’ve had in these times].”
Lacson recalled that House leaders declared P9.5 billion in institutional amendments to the NEP.
“I don’t know what actually happened, but we don’t have the sort of P75 billion plus” in House amendments that triggered the two chambers’ standoff in the 2019 budget, Lacson added.
In the case of the 2020 bill, the House—as it declared—indeed made only institutional changes: to the National Food Authority for palay purchases; ang the Department of Health  for augmentation for the Universal Health Care.
Still, Lacson conceded that their counterparts may still have some “hidden” items that have escaped scrutiny so far, adding that if such were unearthed, that would be “bloody.”
“But as far as what was transmitted to the Senate, it’s really just P9.5 billion and purely institutional amendments.” Lacson expressed hope that this orderly process would “hold” and that whatever needs to be tweaked in the bicameral conference panel would be limited to those that will really “improve [our] national budget. In fairness.”
