
# England star Manu Tuilagi dwarfed as he stands next to fellow rugby-playing brothers

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:14:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/england-star-manu-tuilagi-dwarfed-20750008)

England ace Manu Tuilagi is one of the most fearsome rugby players on the planet.
At 18 stone in weight, he is easily one of the most powerful men playing the sport professionally and one of the key components of the England squad.
However, when he stands next to his brothers, Tuilagi is left completely dwarfed.
Earlier in the World Cup campaign, a picture went viral of the brothers, as Tuilagi stood in the middle of Henry, Freddie, Alesana and Vavae.
All of the men on the picture, including Andy, another brother who was not included in the snap, are former rugby players in their own right.
Tuilagi also has another two brothers who did not play rugby.
Every single one of them has played for the Leicester Tigers as their family became something of a rugby dynasty at Welford Road.
On this particular picture, it is Henry, stood on the far left, who caught the eyes of fans.
The former Tigers and Perpignan No.8 looks about twice the size of the others - and had a fierce reputation of his own when he played.
David Flatman, one of his previous opponents, tweeted last month: "We know Manu is a unit...so look at his big brother Henry.
"Some of us had to (try to) tackle him. Never saw a unit like it.
"Him leaving @LeicesterTigers and signing for Perpignan was a truly great day!"
Chris Cusiter, who played with him at Perpignan, added: "There was a lot of ‘your man’ during training at Perpignan!"
By playing this autumn, Manu is the fourth Tuilagi in the family to have been to the Rugby World Cup.
Freddie was part of the Samoa squad in 2001, but did not play, before playing one game four years later.
Alesana featured in Samoa's team for the 2007, 2011 and 2015 World Cups.
Henry enjoyed two matches for Samoa in 2007.
Andy also had the chance to play in the World Cup, but withdrew from Samoa's 2007 squad.
Away from rugby, Tuliagi has two other brothers. The eldest, Olotuli, is a Fa’afafine, which translates to cross-dresser, and has lived his life as a woman, going by the name Julie.
"It’s just the way he is," Tuilagi once said.
"He was born like that and he wants to dress up as a woman. It doesn’t matter. He’s our brother.’"

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
