
# ‘Not-so-better half’ of a drug peddling jodi gets arrested

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/not-so-better-half-of-a-drug-peddling-jodi-gets-arrested/articleshow/71844395.cms)

A 60-year-old habitual drug peddler, who used to commute in mofussil buses carrying drugs to sell it to his clients in the city was arres ted by the SJ Park police. The drug peddler was in competition with his wife, who too was a notorious drug peddler and had faced arrests. It seems the two had some misunderstanding as she was doing quite well in the ‘business,’ and they had parted ways and were doing the illegal business independently. The arrested drug peddler has been identified as N Wazir Khan alias Wazir, 60, of Chintamani Town in Chikkaballapura district. The police have recovered three kilograms of ganja, Rs 1,000 in cash and a mobile phone. “Khan is alleged to have been getting ganja from Chintamani and was transporting it in mofussil buses. He would then sell it to his clients in and around the vicinity of City market area. After completing the sale, he would then return back to his native. He would never stay in the city. He is said to have been active for the last five years and has been caught for the very first time,” said an officer on part of investigations. The police have found out that he would get ganja from a kingpin in Chintamani and a manhunt had been been laid for him.
Khan’s wife is also a drug peddler. She learnt the tricks of the trade from her husband. She acted as the mediator between her husband and the buyers
–A police officer“Khan’s wife is also a drug peddler. She learnt the tricks of the trade from her husband. She acted as the mediator between her husband and the buyers. She would call the buyers whenever the stuff was ready. She started selling drugs without her husband’s knowledge. Only after her arrest, he realised that she was deceiving him. Due to misunderstanding between them, the couple is said to have parted ways,” the officer added. However after Khan’s arrest, the police could not get any information about her as he refrained from talking about her.
