
# Impressive Celtic Silence Highlands

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:22:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/absa-premiership-report-bloemfontein-celtic-v-highlands-park-05-november-2019/666807)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: Bloemfontein Celtic 3-1 Highlands Park
Date: 05 November 2019
Venue: Dr. Petrus Molemela Stadium
Ndumiso Mabena and Menzi Masuku came off the bench and found the back of the net as Bloemfontein Celtic defeated Highlands Park 3-1 in the Absa Premiership on Tuesday evening.
Owen Da Gama rang the changes following the weekend's Telkom Knockout encounter as Peter Shalulile, Sifiso Mbhele and Mothobi Mvala returned to the line-up
After a quiet opening to the half, Celtic found the opening goal on 19 minutes through Sera Motebang, who bagged his third goal of the campaign.
It was no surprise to see Highlands get off to the slower start as they had played 120 minutes against Maritzburg United five days ago, while the visitors had a full week to prepare for the clash.
However, the MTN8 finalists were back on level terms just before the halftime break as the league's top scorer Shalulile netted his seventh goal of the season.
In an attempt to claw their way back into the clash, Lehlohonolo Seema threw on Mabena and Masuku on the hour mark, while Highlands introduced Rodney Ramagalela.
As the half went on, it was Celtic's substitutes that proved fruitful as Mabena fired past Thela Ngobeni with nine minutes remaining in the contest.
The win was sealed moments later when fellow substitute Masuku bagged his first goal of the season from the penalty spot as Celtic move up to ninth spot.

        Here's how they line up:
      
Celtic: 16. Mabokgwane, 18. Mashikinya, 26. Ngobeni, 2. Tani, 35. Baloyi, 3. Mahashe, 12. Maema, 27. Tchilimbou, 9. Sera, 24. Lingwati, 8. Phalane.
Subs: 31. Chaine, 13. Luthuli, Njoti, 50. Masuku, 10. Mabena, 19. Pfumbidzai, Mangweni.
Highlands: 32. Ngobeni, 19. Munyai, 22. Williams, 24. Rae, 21. Mbhele, 8. Mbunjana, 10. Mokoena, 14. Mvala, 43. Mbatha, 38. Shalulile,. 7. Ndoro.
Subs: 1. Heugh, Mzava, 5. Fransman, 6. Letsholonyane, 12. Mogaila, 17. Motlafi, 13. Ramagalela.
