
# Why Europe's far right supports India on the Kashmir issue

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:21:32+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Aljazeera](https://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/europe-supports-india-kashmir-issue-191102184856242.html)

Last week, a delegation of European Members of Parliament (MEPs) visited Indian-administered Kashmir in a carefully coordinated, invitation-only, all expenses paid trip. 
It was the first visit by any foreign delegation since the ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) revoked the region's special status in August.
Since then, the Muslim-majority population has been under a heavy security crackdown. 
The internet has been cut off, while foreign journalists, UN special rapporteurs and US congressional representatives have been barred entry. Phone access is still limited. 
As news of the European trip broke, the list of attendees stirred controversy. 
Most of the nearly 30 MEPs were from far-right, anti-immigration and eurosceptic parties, including Marine Le Pen's French National Rally, Alternative for Germany (AfD) and the Brexit Party.
Poland's ruling Law and Justice party, which is socially conservative, was also represented.
During the short trip, the group took a tour around the main city of Srinagar, which is under curfew, amid reports of clashes.
They also took a boat ride on Dal Lake. 
While the state's former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah reportedly remained under house arrest at a nearby guesthouse, the MEPs met with local traders and students at a high-end hotel. 
The trip ended with a press conference in which they commended Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's fight against "the global menace" of terrorism.
Indian opposition parties, other MEPs and Kashmiri activists were among those who criticised the trip as a publicity stunt, accusing the BJP government of adding insult to injury.
British MEP Theresa Griffin, a member of the main opposition left-wing Labour Party, wrote on Twitter: "To be absolutely clear - the group of far-right MEPs currently visiting are not in any way an 'official' delegation. They do not speak for the European Parliament."
Despite meeting and being pictured with Prime Minister Modi, the group did not attend in an official capacity. 
