
# Cape Town calls on residents to reconsider harmful Guy Fawkes antics

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:19:00+00:00**

Author: **Jenna Etheridge**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/cape-town-calls-on-residents-to-reconsider-harmful-guy-fawkes-antics-20191106)

While the City of Cape Town reported a "reasonably quiet" Guy Fawkes night, it still called on residents to reconsider celebrations that cause others harm.
News24 reported on Wednesday that a 13-year-old boy was on life support after being hit on the head with a brick.
Groote Schuur Hospital spokesperson Alaric Jacobs said the boy was currently in a stable condition.
The police were also investigating an incident in Elsies River on Tuesday, where a group of children terrorised a man and smeared him with paint.
A video of the incident has since gone viral but no arrests have yet been made, according to police spokesperson Siyabulela Malo.
Safety and security mayoral committee member JP Smith said these misguided traditions should be wiped out.

        Hurt, pain and anguish
      
"There is absolutely no justification for this macabre celebration, and the hurt, pain and anguish it causes to so many people; not to mention the drain on City and police resources to deal with the many complaints received which detract from the many other pressing policing priorities in our city.
"I call on community leaders, schools and families to start a conversation about Guy Fawkes and the havoc it wreaks. The safety and security directorate will also consider what possible contribution we can make toward changing the status quo," said Smith
The City's public emergency communication centre fielded 345 calls between 06:00 and 23:00 on Tuesday, most related to the discharging of fireworks.
Fireworks were confiscated in Kleinvlei, Eerste River, Ravensmead, Atlantis, Big Bay and Athlone.
Law enforcement, the metro police, traffic officials and Cape of Good Hope SPCA were all based at a venue operations centre in Goodwood for all eventualities.
