
# Guide: Pokémon Sword And Shield - All Gen 8 Pokémon Announced For The Galar Region

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Gavin Lane**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/guide_pokemon_sword_and_shield_-_all_gen_8_pokemon_announced_for_the_galar_region)

We're getting very close to the launch of Pokémon Sword and Shield, the latest in the mainline Pokémon series and our introduction to a new generation of Pocket Monsters. Gen 8 will feature an entirely new roster of Pokémon and we've collected the entire list of the announced Gen 8 Pokémon below for your viewing pleasure.
We'll update this list as more Pokémon and details are revealed (with Pokédex numbers, version exclusivity, etc). Here we're concentrating on the completely brand-spanking new Pokémon confirmed to be coming to Pokémon Sword and Shield, but there's a hefty number of past Pokémon returning to the Galar Pokédex, too (including regional versions like Galarian Ponyta). Some of those are exclusive to either Pokémon Sword or Shield - check out our version-exclusive list to find out which old favourites are available in which game.
Let's have a look at all the brand new faces below...
In addition to the new Pokémon above, Galarian forms of the following Pokémon have been confirmed:
If you're looking for a complete list of version-exclusive Pokémon, check out our list of the returning Pokémon that you'll only be able to find on either Pokémon Sword or Pokémon Shield (as well as the version-exclusive Gym Leaders).

        Which are your favourites from this bunch of new faces? We'll be sure to update this list of new 'mon as and when they are confirmed. In the meantime, let us know below which ones you're eager to catch.
      
