
# Eight Hurdles To Integrating AI Within A Business (And How To Overcome Them)

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Young Entrepreneur Council**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2019/11/06/eight-hurdles-to-integrating-ai-within-a-business-and-how-to-overcome-them/)

Artificial intelligence has become an everyday part of doing business, and companies that don’t invest in the technology can lose out on much-needed productivity and profit boosts. However, there can be issues with implementing AI, ranging from conflicts with legacy systems to resistance from team members.Fortunately, business leaders who have been through the experience of implementing new tech have valuable insights to help smooth the transition. Below, eight members of Young Entrepreneur Council share some of the most common barriers to successfully implementing AI as well as strategies to overcome them.

        1. Limited Knowledge And Resistance To Change
      
Artificial intelligence’s role in transforming businesses can’t be overlooked. Despite this, most people aren’t quick to adapt to change in their environments. Ideally, the smooth implementation of any type of improved technological system would go hand in hand with educating users in terms of its work process, limitations, strengths and maintenance requirements. The fact that most people aren’t as acquainted as they should be with emerging technologies like AI increases risks and error margins drastically, which could render the system ineffective and eventually turn it into a liability for the company. For this reason, I believe it’s necessary to orient concerned teammates and educate them as required before installing new systems to maximize long-term effectiveness without compromising on efficiency. - Abeer Raza, TekRevol

        2. Problematic Data
      
One of the most pervasive issues encountered when building machine-learning or deep-learning models is problematic data—more broadly, the lack of data, the lack of the right data, unclean data, incomplete data, biased data, data with more noise than signal, etc. Algorithms typically require a massive amount of data in order to be trained properly, and they are particularly sensitive to suboptimal and/or insufficient data sets. Regardless of whether it is transactional, customer, product, financial, master, structured, unstructured, text, images, etc., the data must be well-formed and representative of the problem or opportunity domain being modeled. The best way to ensure data compatibility and usefulness is by employing a comprehensive data governance strategy within the organization. - Susan Rebner, Cyleron, Inc.

        3. Determining The Right Data
      
AI requires data in order to be effective. Since AI is a data-driven technology, it needs a constant stream of data to get it started and to keep it running effectively. Most businesses collect a massive amount of data; however, it is really about collecting the right kind of data to make the AI technology as effective as possible. This can be overcome by doing ample amounts of research prior to implementing the AI within your business. Determine what data your machine will need to solve the problems at hand and begin to build a repository of this specific content. This way, when issues do arise, you are ahead of the game and can quickly use the implementation of AI to solve problems effectively from the start. - Jared Weitz, United Capital Source Inc.

        4. Believing Everything Can Be Automated
      
As valuable as AI can be, sometimes the hype around it makes people think it can automate everything connected with your business. This isn’t the case yet and probably never will be. One example of this is the belief that a chatbot is a comprehensive customer service tool. Chatbots can do a lot, and they’re getting better all the time. However, they are still quite limited and are best for answering FAQs. It’s still essential to give customers reliable personal service. There’s also the psychological aspect of it: Customers often prefer a live or at least a personal response, even if a chatbot can answer a question. If you rely too much on AI you could end up alienating your customers. So it’s great to use chatbots and other AI tools for what they’re good at, but understand their limits. - Kalin Kassabov, ProTexting

        5. The Cost Of Implementation
      
Employing AI is great for your business if you have the budget to accommodate it. Many startups don’t have the upper hand when it comes to spending money on software and tools to accelerate business growth, and AI is no different. It’s something you need to plan out if you want to integrate it and drive conversions. If you want to employ AI for your brand, it’s crucial to set aside a budget for it ahead of time. It’s not something you can frivolously spend money on because it requires a strategy, so make sure it’s in your budget to do so. - Jared Atchison, WPForms

        6. Deciding What You Need
      
You might be excited about all of the awesome AI-powered tools you can implement at your business, but it’s important not to go overboard. Companies can waste a lot of money purchasing AI-powered tools that just don’t end up getting used. To avoid making a mistake and choosing the wrong tools, take advantage of free trials. Many AI-powered tools offer free trials so you can test out the tool before making a commitment. Get the opinion of your team members, too. Let them try out the tool and give their thoughts about whether it’s something they could use on a regular basis to improve business processes. - Stephanie Wells, Formidable Forms

        7. Not Having A Structured Business Model
      
If you try to employ AI without having a structured business model, it’s inevitable that you’ll encounter issues with its integration. Without a proper strategy to implement AI across the board, you’re stuck with advanced technology you can’t use to its full advantage. Include your team in the process to garner feedback and opinions valuable to your business strategy. Consider how AI can improve your team’s workflow and help customers reach solutions faster, and you’ll be quicker to fit it into your business model. - Chris Christoff, MonsterInsights

        8. The Margin Of Error
      
While AI has advanced to the point that it can offer some very enticing business applications, there’s still the possibility that it can do more harm than good. Just look at how Amazon’s AI recruitment system had to be retired for an inherent bias against women—there are definitely still a lot of kinks that need to be worked out. The biggest hurdle that comes from implementing AI over a team of outsourced virtual assistants is the margin of error. This is especially true because it can be unclear what the margin of error even is for cutting-edge AI. To overcome this, I honestly think we’re just going to have to wait and see. If you want to speed the process along, perform some internal A/B tests comparing AI to virtual assistants. - Bryce Welker, The Big 4 Accounting Firms
