
# Aston Martin Revealed Its First Motorcycle, the AMB 001

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christina Majaski**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/news/home_auto/aston-martin-revealed-its-first-motorcycle-the-amb-001.html)

Aston Martin is a name which inspires images of class, elegance, and luxury. Oh, and of course, James Bond. Now the brand famously featured in so many episodes of the British spy-thriller series, has a motorcycle. And it’s everything futuristic and luxurious you might expect.
RELATED: Riding Motorcycles May Make You More Focused and Reduce Stress
Aston Martin has collabed with Brough Superior create its very first motorcycle, the AMB 001. This bike blends the extremely rich finery that the manufacturer has always been known for with a futuristic, nearly anime-inspired aesthetic with the engineering of Brough Superior.
It's not just a fancy bike, either. The classic sensibility of Aston Martin is evident from the get-go, according to recently released photos, with the seat — or “saddle” as the manufacturers prefer — being made from hand-stitched Oxford Tan leather. Matching handlebars in a chestnut hue help to offset an unusual color scheme, while a smooth carbon fiber, titanium, and billet aluminum exterior look swanky (and super sci-fi).
Matte black wheels, forks, and brake assemblings bring a bit of understated strength to the otherwise flashy as f*ck look, and the “Sterling Green” and “Lime Essence” colorways are carried out to the same standard of excellence one would expect.
Looks are one thing, though. There's a reason you can't take the AMB 001 out on the road. The bike is track-legal only, meaning you won't be spinning the tires to pick up a pack of smokes and a few scratch tickets at the corner store any time soon. A turbocharged 180 horsepower V-twin engine is partially responsible for this restriction, though the six-figure price tag likely means that whoever picks up one of these bad boys won't mind taking it to the speedway for a bit of harmless fun.
And the price? Nearly $120,000, so start saving up your nickels and dimes if you want to take a spin on this two-wheeled bit of British ingenuity. But don’t drag your feet because only 100 of the AMB 001s are slated to roll off the assembly line—you’ll need to get your pre-orders in fast if you're serious about taking home a bit of automotive history.
“This is what we believe a cutting-edge motorcycle should be and we are very proud to see the Aston Martin wings on a motorcycle for the first time,” Aston Martin Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer, Marek Reichman said in a statement. “In addition to applying the skills we have developed for cars such as the groundbreaking Aston Martin Valkyrie we have also been able to bring our special expertise in the traditional craft techniques to this project. The finished product is a truly beautiful motorcycle; a design and engineering work of art.”
It's hard to argue with such powerful words, especially given Aston Martin and Brough Superior’s track record of engineering excellence and stylistic success. Bringing Aston Martin into the world of luxury motorcycles is one thing — doing so with such a degree of exclusivity and effectiveness is another entirely.

        You Might Also Dig:
      
News Career & Money Dating Entertainment Food & Booze Health Home & Auto Style & Fashion Tech Black Friday Sex Sex Positions Sex Tips Sex Toys & Games Sexual Experiences Sexual Health Dating Dating Advice Dating Experiences Best Online Dating Sites Relationship Advice Grooming Fragrances Hair Shaving Skin Style Accessories Fashion Advice Fashion Trends Shopping Underwear Watches Fitness Health Mental Health Nutrition Weight Loss Workout Gear Hobby Home Tech Toys Travel Work Man Skills Auto Essential Home Random Survival Deals Health Deals Home Deals Style Deals Tech Deals Career & Money Career Money Productivity Self-Improvement Home & Auto Auto Home Parenting Pets Tools Gifting Anniversaries Birthdays Father's Day Holidays Mother's Day Valentine's Day Weddings Reviews Best Subscription Services Classes Meal Kits Products Food & Booze Booze Food Entertainment Celebs Guy Perspective Media Music Sports Travel TV & Film AskMen on Facebook AskMen on Twitter AskMen on Flipboard AskMen on Google News Top Stories 49 Unique Birthday Gifts for Him Best Back Exercises With Dumbbells Best Electric Shavers Best Free Dating Sites Best Sex Positions to Improve Your Sex Life The Best Sex Toys for Couples © 2019 Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AskMen, Become a Better Man, Big Shiny Things, Mantics and guyQ are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. Media Kit Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement IGN PCMag Offers.com Geek ExtremeTech Toolbox SpeedTest
