
# 'Unleash' - Aston Villa fans are all saying the same thing about Jack Grealish

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:47:54+00:00**

Author: **Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/jack-grealish-aston-villa-england-17216551)

Aston Villa fans are calling for Jack Grealish to be included in the latest England squad.
The Aston Villa captain is in line for his first cal-up to Gareth Southgate's senior side having featured for the Under-21s in the past.
Calls for Grealish to be included in the England team for European Championships qualifiers against Montenegro and Serbia later this month have grown after he missed out on the last couple of squads.
Grealish has watched his Villa team-mate Tyrone Mings make his debut for the Three Lions but he has remained down the pecking order below Leicester City's James Maddison and Chelsea's Mason Mount.
 
However, before Grealish picked up a calf injury against Manchester City last month - one that ruled him out of Villa's past couple of games - he had been an influential figure for his boyhood team .
He netted an equaliser against Brighton and Hove Albion and set up the winner for Matt Targett in injury time - a performance that led to Grealish being touted for the next England squad.
An official announcement is expected this afternoon and Villa fans want to see their hero included.

        Here's the pick of the chatter on social media...
      
@ LJillings : I'm actually so confident Grealish will get called up for the England squad. Unless hes not 100% fit, he'll be in there
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
@ iamVilla : Surely now is the time to unleash Grealish on the international stage!
@ RyanEJourno : If Jack Grealish isn't in this England squad then there's clearly something wrong with the selection policy - he's absolutely class.
@ sammielou : It's about time you called Grealish up
@ AVFC_Religion : Happy Grealish Day!!!
@_ imRascaL : I would like to see grealish in the squad
