
# Letters: give older people a voice on housing

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:07+00:00**

Author: **Guardian Staff**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/03/give-older-people-voice-housing-observer-letters)


        Building new almshouses is welcome, but only if potential residents’ views are embraced from the outset
      
Housing that is well designed for ageing is of paramount importance in a society where numbers over the age of 85 are set to double in the next 25 years (“The solution for an ageing UK? Build new almshouses”, News). A “new almshouse movement” is welcome, but one essential element of this approach must be a transformation of its culture. The heritage of centuries has been deeply paternalistic, with older people viewed as “beneficiaries” of the decisions taken on their behalf by the good and worthy who populate almshouse boards.
“Co-production partnership” is a notion taking hold very slowly, whereby the end-users of new schemes have a real voice and are involved in the development from the outset, and power is not concentrated on high but shared. The residents of a new almshouse will be those who were young in the 1960s and 1970s – they are used to having a say. The example given of the Older Women’s Cohousing project in High Barnet offers a compelling contrast, run entirely by themselves without external patronage. A new almshouse movement would be a wonderful thing, but it needs to borrow concepts such as individual and group autonomy, collective decision-making and co-production from the community-led housing movement if it is to be truly modern.Maria Brenton, UK CohousingLondon SW6
Two years ago, that lovely Christian man Jacob Rees-Mogg described the massive increase in the number of food banks as “uplifting” and a sign of a compassionate society. I wonder if he has a similar sense of uplift on hearing evidence given by desperate mothers to the inquiry into universal credit that they were selling sex to buy food for their children (“A welfare system that drives mothers into prostitution is no safety net”, Comment).Sarah JamesMonmouth
Your article on GM rice was one-sided and simplistic (“Block on GM rice ‘has cost millions of lives and led to child blindness’”, News). Golden rice represents a “magic bullet” solution to a complex problem, much like the introduction of cane toads to Australia to control beetle pests. The UN’s sustainable development goals teach us that we need a more systematic approach to tackling problems such as child malnutrition.
Children are deficient in vitamin A in many countries because they don’t have access to vegetables. That means they’ll be deficient in many other nutrients, which golden rice will not tackle, a lack that will continue to do significant damage to their health. Plus, consider economic and social factors: if golden rice is promoted as healthy and essential for children, it will be more expensive than “ordinary” rice. The children who most need it are unlikely to get it. Studies last year showed that paddy rice cultivation can emit twice as many greenhouse gases as previously thought, providing further impetus to moving in the direction demanded by the World Health Organization, towards producing twice the amount of fruit and vegetables we currently do to ensure a minimally healthy diet for every human being.
A “business as usual with a bit of added technology” alleged solution to our problems is unlikely to meet the social, economic and environmental crises we face.Natalie Bennett, Green party peer and former leaderSheffield
Robin McKie’s article was a stark factual reminder of the potential societal benefits of GM technologies. However, it is probably appropriate to stop the blame game that has focused on GM. This argument has blighted potentially constructive discussion between “agricultural” and “environmental” interests that should be moving forward together to develop environmentally compatible agriculture capable of producing healthy food for all.
Many of us involved in advancing the food security agenda believe passionately that our work has to proceed hand in hand with safe technology and that progress has also to stand the test of environmental sustainability. The time has come to evaluate technologies objectively for their safety, and ask ethical questions about their deployment. This approach will require a coming together of all interest groups around what must be common themes about which there can be little debate: a climate emergency and the urgent need to figure out a way to feed two billion more people healthily by 2050.Dale Sanders, directorJohn Innes CentreNorwich
It’s not just actors who at times need other employment (“Was it necessary to shop Katie Jarvis for working in a shop?”, Comment). Some years ago, as a freelance writer, I sought another job and became a television subtitler. Hearing about my new job (whose aim is to enable deaf people to enjoy their chosen TV programmes), a small but significant number of literary colleagues expressed pity and obvious embarrassment at what they clearly saw as loss of caste. At one university where I was invited (still wearing my writer’s hat) to speak on a literary topic, I was discreetly urged by my hosts not to mention my current employment lest it lower my status in the eyes of my audience.
“Gig economy” is a new term for what has always been financial reality for freelance actors, writers, artists and musicians. Katie Jarvis’s situation is just one example of the multitasking needed to maintain a creative career. I wish her good luck – and lots of gigs.Zoe FairbairnsLondon SE19
It seems that Dan Rainey is confused as to how the EU works (“Why I voted Leave”, Letters). The EU has nothing to do with how we run our NHS, police, education, local authorities, housing, social services or taxes. The EU does not “rule” us – we are equal partners. Boris Johnson did not have to rush over to Brussels to ask what he should put in the Queen’s speech. Mr Rainey seems to believe that the lack of attention to deprived northern areas was because of the EU parliament, when we all know of the harm done in the 1980s by the Thatcher government and austerity policies after the financial crash. One of the EU’s main policies has been, and still is, to get funds to the deprived areas of Europe, including in the UK. Janet DaviesHartley Wintney, Hampshire
You state that Britain “badly needs a dose of Spanish-style candour about its history” (“Spain confronts its past. Other countries should follow its lead”, Editorial). This is an overly kind interpretation of Spain’s past and current approach to fascism and dissent. Far-right groups are tolerated by politicians and the national police, as witnessed by the scenes at Franco’s exhumation and, more violently, on the streets of Barcelona in counter-demonstrations. Francoism remains alive in the judiciary and police. This has again been demonstrated by the harsh and provocative crackdown on Catalan leaders and the reaction to the resulting protests. The disinterment of Franco is long overdue. However, the removal of the dictator’s influence is a more pressing matter for today’s Spain.Andrew PoynerStamford, Lincs
Torsten Bell’s analysis of voting patterns is just one example of how Britain is divided by age (“Age, not class, has come to define how Britain votes”, Comment). Ours is one of the most age-segregated countries and this has led to a host of social and economic problems, from loneliness and ageism to housing, health, care and education. The next government must bring Britain together. More mixing between the generations will build stronger communities and a stronger country. Stephen Burke, directorUnited for All AgesHappisburgh, Norfolk
