
# Georgia man fatally shot at Waffle House after allegedly using racial slurs, police say

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:12:54+00:00**

Author: **Julissa Canas, Atlanta Journal-Constitution**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/trending-now/georgia-man-fatally-shot-at-waffle-house-after-allegedly-using-racial-slurs-police-say/1004624384?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

A Georgia man was shot and killed after allegedly using racial slurs at a Waffle House in Butts County, authorities said.
Police were called three times Thursday night in reference to the situation at the restaurant in Jackson, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said in a news release. The first call was made over an angry customer, the second was over a fight and the last call reported shots had been fired. 
Authorities said the shooting was initiated when Nicholas Phinazee Bryan, 27, of Milner, used racial slurs in a confrontation with two men, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.
Bryan was asked to leave the Waffle House by staff, but instead, a physical altercation ensued between Bryan and one of the two men, according to the GBI. Bryan was then allegedly shot by the second man. 
The GBI was called by the Butts County Sheriff’s Office just past midnight to investigate the incident.
AJC.com is not identifying the two other men involved because the Sheriff’s Office could not confirm Friday evening whether the men had been arrested or charged. 
Bryan was taken to Monroe County Hospital where he later died at about 3 a.m., the GBI said. An autopsy will be performed, officials said.
