
# Injury Update For Table-Topping Chiefs As Superstar Misses Trip

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:19:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-have-another-player-joining-their-injury-list/666858)

Ernst Middendorp has given an injury update regarding Kaizer Chiefs’ important clash with Chippa United, and it’s not good news for a couple of star players… 

        Check out some Chiefs injury and suspension news in the gallery above
      
The Glamour Boys are out to win five away games in a row for the first time since 2014 as they seek to maintain their lead at the top of the Absa Premiership table, but they will once again be without both Kearyn Baccus (ankle/knee) and Reeve Frosler (hamstring).

        Read: Amakhosi Star - It’s No Different For Sundowns & Pirates…
      
Chiefs are currently five points clear at the top of the table following their impressive start to the campaign, but will be wary of both Mamelodi Sundowns and Bidvest Wits who could potentially close the gap with their games in hand.
The club said on their official website that both ‘Kearyn Baccus and Reeve Frosler are not in the traveling squad’, while Middendorp went on to say, “As for the rest of the players it is just a matter of managing them as the games are coming thick and fast.”
Meanwhile, the Siya crew has been led to believe that star attacker, Khama Billiat, was not deemed fit enough to make the squad following a knock that he sustained against Orlando Pirates, and didn’t travel as the club seeks to make sure he doesn’t aggravate that.
Chiefs also have injury concerns regarding Itumeleng Khune’s groin and Nkosingiphile Ngcobo’s pending return from a serious Achilles injury, while Joseph Molangoane’s future is in doubt following problems in his recovery from a leg break.
Lastly, Middendorp also will have one eye on the Soweto Derby regarding Willard Katsande and Daniel Akpeyi, both of whom would miss the game if they're booked against the Chilli Boys tonight.

        Do you think Chiefs can beat Chippa tonight? 
      

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now
        
      
