
# Leigh Griffiths pictured at Celtic training ahead of Lazio showdown as striker readies himself for comeback

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:54:48+00:00**

Author: **Darren Cooney**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/leigh-griffiths-pictured-celtic-training-20823521)

Celtic striker Leigh Griffiths has been pictured training ahead of the club’s crucial clash in Rome.
The 29-year-old took part in a full session at Celtic Park as Neil Lennon’s squad prepare to fly out for the Lazio showdown later on Wednesday.
It’s a major boost to Lennon’s attacking options as of last week he had just one fit striker to call upon in Odsonne Edouard following a knee injury to Vakoun Bayo.
Griffiths hasn’t featured for the champions since a 3-1 victory over Hearts in late August. Following his personal problems the former Hibs star has been hit with niggling injuries and a virus.
He dropped a major hint he’s ready to return earlier this week when he posted a "guess who’s back" message on social media.
And now Griffiths is edging ever closer to a comeback by joining the rest of the squad at the stadium for their final training session before taking on the Serie A giants in the Europa League.
He was named in Celtic ’s European squad list for the competition in which Lennon’s side are top of their group.
The feel-good factor is high right now following a convincing win over Hibs at Hampden on Saturday to book a Betfred Cup Final place against Rangers.
The club also revealed this morning Callum McGregor has signed a new five-year deal. Scott Brown looks to be next in line for a new contract.
