
# General election 2019: Tory candidate Nick Conrad quits over rape comments

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:27:06+00:00**

Author: **Nicola Bartlett, Oliver Milne, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/nicola-bartlett/, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/oliver-milne/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/general-election-2019-tory-candidate-20837299)

A Tory candidate said who women should "keep their knickers on" to avoid getting raped resigned saying the comments had become a "distraction". 
Nick Conrad, a former BBC Radio Norfolk presenter made the comments in 2014 while discussing the high-profile Ched Evans rape case.
In a statement Mr Conrad confirmed  he was abandoning his candidacy after being disavowed by the PM and called “unfit for office” by Labour.
The Tory party initially resisted growing calls to sack Mr Conrad.
Earlier Boris Johnson called the comments "unacceptable" but did not call for Nick Conrad to go.
 
Labour’s Angela Rayner welcomed his departure saying the views he expressed in 2014 “have no place in the 21st Century”.
Ms Rayner said: “Nick Conrad’s despicable comments blaming the victims of rape, saying they should have kept their ‘knickers on’, sound like they were lifted out of a Handmaid’s Tale’s script.
“Nick Conrad's views should be consigned to the dustbin of history. They have no place in the 21st century, let alone in Parliament.
“Nick Conrad has finally resigned as a Conservative candidate but the fact that he was chosen in the first place and the fact that Boris Johnson stood by him is further proof that the Party is infected with sexism from top to bottom."
 
Tonight in a statement Mr Conrad, said: “Five years ago I made ill-judged comments during an on-air radio discussion for which I made a genuine and heartfelt apology.
“Last night I was honoured to be made the Conservative candidate for Broadland and had hoped to become the MP for a constituency which is close to my heart.
“However it has become clear to me that the media attention on my previous comments have become a distraction.
“For me, the most important thing is for the Conservative Party to be successful in the forthcoming election - getting Brexit done and delivering on the people’s priorities. 
“This is why I have reluctantly concluded I must stand down to allow one of the other excellent candidates the opportunity to win this fantastic seat.
“I would like to thank Broadland Conservative Association for their support and wish the party every success in the election on December 12.”
 
During a debate which focused on the case of footballer Ched Evans, who was convicted and later cleared of a rape charge, Mr Conrad said: “It’s the old adage about if you yank a dog’s tale then don’t be surprised when it bites you.”
He continued: “I think women need to be more aware of a man’s sexual desire; that when you’re in that position that you are about to engage in sexual activity, there’s a huge amount of energy in the male body, there’s a huge amount of will and intent, and it’s very difficult for many men to say no when they are whipped up into a bit of a storm.
“What I’m trying to say is that women also have to understand that when a man’s given certain signals, he’ll wish to act upon them and if you don’t wish to give out the wrong signals, it’s best probably to keep your knickers on and not get into bed with him.
“Does that make sense?”
Nick Conrad, 34, received the backing of the local party on Wednesday to run for the seat held by Tory Keith Simpson, who has stepped down after 22 years as an MP.
Mr Simpson held the constituency at the 2017 election with a majority of 15,816.
The presenter told the Eastern Daily Press on Wednesday that he was “absolutely delighted” to be selected as Conservative parliamentary candidate for Broadland.
He said he had apologised for his comments in 2014 and did so again.
“It’s a very genuine heartfelt apology,” he said. “I completely messed up, I knew I’d got it wrong and it didn’t demonstrate the fact that I know that it’s the most abhorrent crime.
