
# Rangers are miles behind Celtic and fans' fake optimism must embarrass sensible supporters - Hotline

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:32:49+00:00**

Author: **Sports Hotline, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sports-hotline/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/rangers-miles-behind-celtic-fans-20788660)

The final act before the curtain comes down just had to be the Hotline.
After two amazing decades at the Daily Record and Sunday Mail yours truly has decided to “do walking away” to join Ally McCoist in his garden and Craig Levein down the Job Centre.
But before I go there’s just enough time for one last blast from the column that epitomises the spirit of this newspaper.
Confession time. We all give a mock grumble when it’s our turn to man the phones and, quite frankly, it’s never been the same since that Hugh Keevins left, has it?
But the Hotline is the beloved beating heart of Daily Record Sport because it’s our brilliant little version of the local boozer.
 
The place where punters - though divided by their team allegiances - are united in their love of the game, their dislike of referees and the banter. Especially the banter.
So let’s get this farewell party started with some calls about a fellow job seeker.
Stephen Johnstone, Ardentinny, said: “ Craig Levein isn’t the first and he won’t be the last manager to get the bullet. If Ian McCall’s Partick Thistle players don’t pull their socks up he’ll be joining him in the dole queue soon.”
Frank McFerrin, Carrickfergus, said: “Ok, Craig Levein had to go from his job in management? But some people like Gary Mackay want him out on his ear completely, not earning a living.
“Obviously Mrs Budge has trust in him so it’s her business. Maybe a bit of jealousy here, Gary?”
Lewis Fotheringham, Mount Ellen, said: “I’m not a Hearts fan but I do not understand why Craig Levein is still on payroll for the remainder of the season, despite being sacked from TWO jobs.
“It just shows there is an old pals act between Levein and Ann Budge. There could be suspicions amongst fans that Levein will still have some influence in executive decisions in the future.”
Eddie Easson, Ballingry, said: “There is only one person to blame for the debacle at Hearts and that is Anne Budge. She enjoyed all the plaudits when she took over.
“She gave Levein the keys to Tynecastle and she agreed to his dream team of Ian Cathro and Austin McCann where he was the puppeteer pulling the strings.
“He took over the show and was an abject failure. Incredibly he is still there. Mrs Budge had better get it right next time.”
Duncan Fraser, Auchterarder, said: “I wonder how many managers in the last 30 years have been sacked, liked Levein, immediately after defeat from St Johnstone.
“Certainly Paul Heckingbottom must be looking at the fixture list just now and nervously seeing that his next league game is at McDiarmid Park.”
Levein might be welcome to see out his contract by working behind the scenes but Dundee United fan Ronald Swan, Lochee, is ready to offer him a new job straight away.
Ronnie said: “Mr Ogren, get on the phone to Levein asap and get him back to Tannadice to work with Robbie Neilson as his director football. If Robbie doesn’t like it, tough luck.”
Alfie Mullin, London, added: “It’s a shame that poor Craig Levein got the bullet. Mind you, he shouldn’t worry too much about it. There will be a vacancy at Celtic Park in a few months that he can go for.”
But what about the next Hearts boss?
John Davidson, Armadale, said: “All this hype about Stephen Robinson as the front runner for the Hearts job, I don’t believe to be true. The bargain buy is Jack Ross. He’s got Hearts connections and was part of the previous coaching set-up before making a name for himself at St Mirren.”
Rangers fans are feeling confident after their 4-0 thumping of Ross County in midweek, but Daniel Caldwell, Kelty, hit back: “Reading these Rangers fans crowing about their team I was wondering if I was reading The Dandy, not the Hotline.
“If they genuinely think they are close to Celtic they are seriously over-optimistic about the standard of their team and the state of their club.
“Do they forget the first Old Firm game of the season when Celtic destroyed them on their own patch?”
Steve McSherry, Uddingston, added: “Will Rangers fans ever learn to shut up? Every year for the last three they were going to win the league.
“Now this year they are going to win the treble. This fake optimism must embarrass sensible fans. They have improved but are still miles behind Scotland’s biggest and most successful club.”
I sense a heated debate coming on here, so I’m just going to step aside and leave you guys to it.
Thanks for everything, Hotliners. It’s been entertaining.
