
# From Salman Khan's 'Radhe' to Shah Rukh Khan turning the knight in shining armour; Here are the newsmakers of the week

Published at: **2019-11-02T02:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/from-salman-khans-radhe-to-shah-rukh-khan-turning-the-knight-in-shining-armour-here-are-the-newsmakers-of-the-week/articleshow/71856495.cms)

B-town was buzzing this week with Diwali bashes. Bollywood stars donned their best traditional attires and graced the parties hosted by megastar Amitabh Bachchan, Kapoor family among others. Apart from the star-studded parties, Shah Rukh Khan made news this week, not for announcing a new film but saving Aishwarya Rai's manager from a fire accident. At the box office, 'Housefull 4' witnesses a record-breaking run while Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal add fuel to dating rumours. Here’s a rundown of what made headlines this week!

        Shah Rukh Khan saves Aishwarya Rai's manager from fire accident
      
Shah Rukh Khan turned the knight in the shining armour at Bachchan's Diwali bash earlier this week. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan's longtime manager Archana Sadanand escaped a fire accident during the Diwali party and was rescued by SRK. Sadanand's lehenga caught fire due to a diya. However, the actor jumped into the scene and quickly put out the fire with his jacket. While Archana was admitted to hospital, SRK too suffered minor burn injuries.

        Salman Khan all set to kick start 'Radhe'
      
After launching the trailer of his much-anticipated 'Dabangg 3', Salman Khan is now all set to start shooting for his Eid 2020 release 'Radhe'. The actor will be reuniting with Prabhudeva for their third film together. The actor recently revealed the pivotal star cast of the film. The film will see Disha Patani, Randeep Hooda and Jackie Shroff. The actor shared pictures from the muhurat of the film. The first schedule is set to start from the 4th of November.

        Housefull 4
      
Dubbed as the comedy-entertainer of the year, Akshay Kumar starrer 'Housefull 4' worked wonders at the box office this week. The film which released previous Friday started off to an impressive start, however, blasted off from Monday post-Diwali. The Farhad Samji directorial crossed Rs 100 crore mark in just five days and saw people flocking into the theatres. The film has collected a total of Rs 137.25 crore in its first week at the box office and is all set to become yet another successful film of the year.

        Katrina and Vicky
      
Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal may just be the hottest new couple in B-town. Both the actors have been linked up earlier too but they have kept quiet about their alleged relationship. However, photos and videos of both Vicky and Katrina attending a close friend’s Diwali party together have again added fuel to fire. This joint appearance comes at a time when the two have had fans and media on couples watch. Reports also suggest that they will feature in a film together.

        Preity Zinta to make a cameo appearance in 'Dabangg 3'
      
Fans of Salman Khan were in for a surprise as Preity Zinta posted a picture on Instagram with Chulbul Pandey from the sets of his upcoming cop-drama 'Dabangg 3.' The actress is seen dressed as a cop in the film and hits that we will get to see her making a cameo appearance in the film. Preity also replicated Chulbul Pandey’s signature style of dangling glares on the back in the picture. Directed by Prabhudeva, ‘Dabangg 3’ is scheduled to hit the screens on December 20.
