
# Top 10 one-club scorers in Premier League history as Thierry Henry heads list

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/top-10-one-club-scorers-20758075)

The race for the 2019/20 Premier League Golden Boot looks set to be another special one with plenty of names in the mix.
Among them are goalscoring machines Sergio Aguero and Harry Kane, who continue to find the net for Manchester City and Tottenham respectively.
Unlike Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Raheem Sterling, the strikers have only found the net for their current clubs.
With that in mind, Mirror Football has trawled through the Premier League archives and taken a look at the top 10 players whose goals have all come for one team.
So, that means there is no place for the top four scorers in Premier League history - including all-time leader Alan Shearer and second-placed Wayne Rooney.
The now Manchester United boss delivered a fine total during his playing days at Old Trafford.
Solskjaer joined United in 1996 and spent over a decade with the Red Devils.
The Norwegian's best tally came in his debut campaign, with 17.
His seven goals in his final season see him edge out prolific Leicester marskman Jamie Vardy to make the cut.
Van Nistelrooy remains one of the greatest finishers the Premier League has seen.
The Dutchman managed to score all 95 of his Premier League goals in just five seasons at Old Trafford.
He scored 25 in the 2002/03 season, which saw him claim the Golden Boot.
A true one-club man, Le Tissier played his entire professional career on the south coast.
He did manage 161 league goals for Southampton , but a chunk of those came in the First Division.
Le Tissier scored a stunning 25 times in the 1993/94 season and famously bagged the last goal at The Dell in 2001.
Chelsea legend Drogba enjoyed two spells at Stamford Bridge.
He initially moved to London from Marseille for £24m in 2004 and the goals followed.
Drogba scored 29 times as Chelsea won the title in 2010, securing his ton in his first spell.
The Ivorian would return under Jose Mourinho in 2014, managing another four goals.
Scholes played out his entire career at Old Trafford and makes the list from midfield.
The United legend scored in every season he played in the Premier League - 19 in total.
He was lured out of retirement by Sir Alex Ferguson in 2012 and still had time to add another few foals to his excellent tally.
Manchester United legend Giggs scored in 21 consecutive Premier League seasons for the club.
His best tally came in the 1993/94 season as the winger bagged 13 times.
Giggs didn't find the net in his final season for the club under David Moyes before finally calling it a day.
Liverpool legend Gerrard enjoyed an incredible career at Anfield and delivered a fantastic goal record in the process.
All of his Premier League goals came in the red of his boyhood club, his first coming against Sheffield Wednesday in 1999.
Gerrard's final goal for Liverpool came in his last appearance, a 6-1 drubbing at Stoke at the end of the 2014/15 campaign.
England skipper Kane is over half way to Alan Shearer's overall record, and is only 26.
The striker didn't make his league debut until 2012, meaning he has racked up a stunning total in just over seven years.
Kane's best tally came in 2018 when he scored 30 times, but he has scored more than 20 in three other seasons.
He did of course have a brief spell on loan with Norwich, but didn't find the net.
The Manchester City striker will hope to top the 200 goal mark before his time at the Etihad is over.
Aguero, 31, joined City in 2011 and scored one of the most famous Premier League goals ever on the final day of that season.
He managed 23 in his maiden campaign but has since beat that twice for City.
The Frenchman remains arguably the best ever foreign player to grace the Premier League.
Henry had a slow start to life in north London but scored 17 or more in all but one of his eight seasons at Arsenal .
He racked up 30 in the Invincibles' campaign, taking his total to 174 before leaving for Barcelona .
Henry returned in January 2012, scoring once in the Premier League in a win at Sunderland.
