
# John Mulaney Plays Thoreau On 'Dickinson' & It's Pretty Historically Accurate

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:17:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/john-mulaney-plays-thoreau-on-dickinson-its-pretty-historically-accurate-19293482)

Dickinson may dance to Lizzo and say "hella tight" but that doesn't mean the series isn't historical accurate. In fact, it's sometimes painfully so, particularly when it comes to John Mulaney's hilarious portrayal on Henry David Thoreau. The poet/philosopher appears on Dickinson as a privileged slacker, the stereotypical guy who lives in his mother's basement and rants about "society" on Twitter. The kind of man that selfishly eschews all responsibilities because, as a white man, he can without consequence. It's played for comedy in Dickinson, but whether or not Thoreau was a true environmentalist or a hypocritical loner has been debated for decades.
In Dickinson Episode 4 "Alone, I cannot be," Emily takes a road trip to Concord in search of Thoreau — hoping that he'll help her advocate against plans to lay train tracks in her backyard. Unfortunately, Thoreau doesn't really care that much about other people. He's also not nearly as "alone" as his book Walden claims.
In 1845, Thoreau retreated to a cabin on Walden Pond in order to "live deliberately." But Kathryn Schultz's 2015 New Yorker essay, "The Moral Judgments of Henry David Thoreau" points out the contradictions in Thoreau's writing as well as his lifestyle and asks us to reconsider whether he deserves to be remembered as a hero. The essay also includes many of the details we see in Dickinson. Per Schultz, it's true that Thoreau pretty much only had beans in his not-so-solitary cabin.
It's true that Walden Pond was a tourist destination in Concord, and it's true that Thoreau's mother and sister frequently visited him to bring him food and do his laundry and other chores. He also entertained guests of his own. And yet, we are expected to praise Thoreau for his "independent" lifestyle.
