
# Middendorp Explains Chiefs' Subs

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:09:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/ernst-middendorp-explains-chiefs-subs/666603)

Kaizer Chiefs head coach Ernst Middendorp has explained why he substituted Njabulo Blom and Willard Katsande during the Telkom Knockout quarter-final against Orlando Pirates.

        Read: Drama Galore In Durban As Chiefs End Bucs' TKO Dream
      
Chiefs progressed to the semi-finals after overcoming Pirates on penalties at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
Middendorp took out Njabulo Blom and Katsande in the second half, but Pirates were surprisingly still in the lead despite playing with a man less.
"Ja, fantastic event, quite entertaining, stretched to what is possible, what is necessary, I think we have to notify that Pirates made it difficult for us, even in a tactical way, working with Lorch and Mhango upfront, we had trouble despite [being] one man more but good, we had to come back from 0-1 to take a little bit of a risk here and there," the German tactician told SuperSport TV after the match.
"But that'show it is, this derby character is always specific if you're man short, one man more but of course, compliment to the guys, we're happy to go to the next round," he went on to explain his tactical changes that brought back from 1-0 down.
"We took more or less a full-back out [Blom] and put in an attacking player [Bernard Parker] into the right-back, we took Willard Katsande out from the defensive side and brought in an attacking Dumisani Zuma at half-time more or less but it's necessary, don't wait, when we did [attack] we had a number of waves, we scored this goal when we had other opportunities but good, that's why I say Pirates found solutions despite having one man less. I think this is something where the technical team comes in, compliment to the guys, it was very difficult for us.
"This is definitely something, the confidence, with ten games, cup games being successful, the confidence is in the faces of the guys, the mindset. To play one critical side in this modern game is the mindset, it's the little details that are crucial for the outcome and at certain moments you need this confidence we worked on over a period of three-four months, good it comes to place when you're in the penalty-shoot-outs."
