
# Numbers on the ground are different, section of leaders say of census data

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:12:53+00:00**

Author: **CAPITAL REPORTER**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/numbers-on-the-ground-are-different-section-of-leaders-say-of-census-data/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya Nov 6 – Several leaders have disputed the census results released on Monday by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS), saying they are not a true reflection of the figures on the ground.
      
Governors Ali Roba (Mandera) and Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) are leading opposing voices in their counties, saying the numbers given by the government are ‘fake’.
ADVERTISEMENT
“I will challenge the data in court because they are not a true reflection,” Roba said, hours after his Tharaka Nithi counterpart expressed similar sentiments.
The KNBS data shows that Tharaka Nithi’s population stands at 393, 177 and Mandera 867,457.
Overall, the results show that Kenya’s population has grown to 47.6 million, up from 37.7 million in 2009.
“These results are not a true reflection of our numbers, and since we know that they will be used in a formula for revenue allocation, we reject them,” Governor Njuki told a news conference at the Serena Hotel, a day after the results were released by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) that undertook a national census exercise in August. “We expect census results to be a true reflection of the country’s population.”
The report was presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi on Monday by KNBS Director General Zachary Mwangi.
“The population has grown to 47.6 million in 2019 from 37.7 million in 2009,” Mwangi said, “Females accounted for 50.5 percent of the total population.”
President Kenyatta said the census report will help the government re-align its development strategies with the new data.
“I am happy to note that this is the first census to be conducted under the new Constitution and was fully funded by my government. We employed the use of the new technology and the devices used were assembled locally,” he said and “directed all ministries, departments and all arms of government and development partners to utilise these results,” he said.
Post Views: 180
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
