
# Saracens docked 35 points and fined £5m for breaching salary cap rules

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:44:36+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/breaking-saracens-docked-35-points-20814722)

English champions Saracens have been handed a 35-point deduction and fined £5,360,272.31 for breaching salary cap regulations.
In a bombshell ruling the Premiership winners for four of the last five years have been handed the maximum penalty under the regulations.
It drops them to the foot of the table on minus 26 points and leaves the star-studded squad facing an uphill battle to avoid relegation.
The punishment follows a seven-month investigation after it came to light that Sarries highest profile players had entered into investment or property partnerships with club owner Nigel Wray.
Those players include England stars Owen Farrell, Maro Itoje and the Vunipola brothers, Mako and Billy, who are all still coming to terms with England’s World Cup final drubbing by South Africa.
In a candid interview with Mirror Sport in May, Wray defended the club’s practices, saying: “I understand people saying is it a way round the wage cap?
“But there is a huge difference between investment - where the player can lose money, we can lose money - and salary. To me that’s a most important point.”
Wray, who since 1995 has pumped up to £40m of his own personal fortune into the club, added: “People talk about caring for players. You can’t talk just talk about it, you’ve got to do it.
“The career of a rugby player might end tomorrow. We have to help them build a much better tomorrow. Hopefully that time will be in their mid-30s but at some stage players will fall off a cliff.
“Their salary will go down by 90 per cent. They will lose the ‘family’ they have been with for 15 years. We’ve got to work at giving them a better future. And that’s what we do and will continue to do.”
Under the Regulations, Saracens Rugby Club has the ability to seek a review of the decision by an arbitration body. The review can only be on the basis that there has been an error of law, the decision is irrational or that there has been some procedural unfairness. In the event that Saracens Rugby Club seeks a review, the sanctions will be suspended pending the outcome of that review.
A Premiership Rugby spokesperson said: "The Salary Cap is an important mechanism to ensure a level playing field for Premiership Clubs and maintain a competitive, growing and financially sustainable league.
"Today’s decision by the Independent Panel upholds both the principle of the Salary Cap and the charges brought following an extensive investigation by Premiership Rugby. We are pleased that this process has reached a conclusion and we look forward to another exciting season of Premiership Rugby.”
