
# Apple TV+ finally launches today - here's what it is and when you can get it

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:57:14+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/apple-tv-finally-launches-today-20787037)

After months of anticipation, Apple TV+ will finally launch today.
Apple ’s exclusive TV service officially launches today in over 100 countries and regions, including the UK.
While Apple hasn't revealed the exact time that the service will go live, rumours suggest that it will launch at 17:00 GMT (13:00 ET).
The service will offer several original TV programmes, films and documentaries, including ‘The Morning Show’, ‘The Elephant Queen’ and ‘See’.
Zack Van Amburg, Apple’s head of Worldwide Video, said: “With Apple TV+, we are presenting all-original stories from the best, brightest and most creative minds, and we know viewers will find their new favourite show or movie on our service.
“Each Apple TV+ original offers its own unique story, fresh perspective and powerful message — all meant to entertain, connect and inspire cultural conversations.”
Here’s everything you need to know about Apple TV+, including what it is and how you can get it.
Apple TV+ is the tech giant’s new original video subscription service, which includes a range of original TV programmes, films and documentaries.
 
Several originals will debut on the service tomorrow, including ‘See’, starring Jason Momoa and ‘The Morning Show’ starring Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer Aniston.

        Originals debuting on November 1:
      
- See
- The Morning Show
- Dickinson
- For All Mankind
- Helpsters
- Snoopy in Space
- Ghostwriter
- The Elephant Queen
- Oprah Winfrey ’s book club
 

        Originals to come:
      
- Servant
- Truth Be Told
- Little America
- The Banker
- Hala
You can watch Apple TV+ originals both online and offline via the Apple TV app, which comes pre-installed on iPhone , iPad , Apple TV and iPod touch.
The Apple TV app is also available on select Samsung smart TVs , and will soon come to Amazon Fire Tv, LG, Roku, Sony and VIZIO platforms.
While Apple TV+ has been widely compared to Netflix , it’s actually much cheaper than its rival.
The service will cost £4.99/month with a seven-day free trial, compared to Netflix’s standard price of £8.99/month.
Apple is also offering one year of Apple TV+ for free for customers who buy any new iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, Mac or iPod touch.
It explained: “Customers have three months after device activation to claim the offer, or if the device was purchased and activated before the launch of Apple TV+, they will have three months starting November 1. The subscription will automatically renew at £4.99 per month after one year. “
