
# Major Stanley Dika Ngada resigns from Global Spectrum Energy Services Limited 

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:17:57+00:00**

Author: **Chidinma Nwagbara**

Original: [Nairametrics.com](https://nairametrics.com/2019/11/07/major-stanley-dika-ngada-resigns/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

The Board of Global Spectrum Energy Services Limited has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the general public of the resignation of Major Stanley Dika Ngada from the company’s board as a Non-Executive Director.
Ngada’s resignation took effect from October 30, 2019. In the statement, the company appreciated the services Ngada rendered over the last seven years.
Ngada retired from the Nigeria army after 23 years of meritorious service. He participated in various international and local peace assignments during his service years. He is a 1984 graduate of Law from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.
About the company: Global Spectrum Energy Services Limited deals in the provision of Complimentary Offshore Support Vessel Services, Maritime Security, Logistics, and Engineering Services. Incorporated in 2006, the company is an integrated Oil & Gas Offshore Support Vessel Services Company involved in the Nigerian Oil and Gas industry. It intends to expand into the other key producing areas in the Gulf of Guinea.
Global Spectrum Energy Services Limited got listed on the Nigeria Stock Exchange in 2017. Presently, the company is run by Colm Doyle, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Roy Donaldson as Chief Operating Officer (COO).

        [READ MORE: 
        Alexander Goma resigns as Executive Director from PZ Cussons]
      
The operations of the Marine Services Division and Security Systems Division of Global Spectrum Energy Services Limited concentrate on Developing countries, especially those of West Africa including Nigeria, Ghana, Equatorial Guinea, Ivory Coast, etc. They also serve as intermediaries and agents for Companies seeking Partnership in these areas.
The company also offers aviation services where a team of operators based in each country of operation provides the appropriate security measures such as security of the flight crew and airline staff whilst in-transit between the airport and hotel or other residences.
Its offices are located in Lagos, Abuja and Rivers state.
