
# Last Christmas' Emilia Clarke considered online dating after failed celeb romances

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:55:56+00:00**

Author: **Poppy Danby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/poppy-danby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/last-christmas-emilia-clarke-considered-20820265)

Emilia Clarke is one of the ­hottest actresses on our screens today – with ­romantic seasonal blockbuster Last Christmas about to make her star shine even brighter.
So you would expect a queue of suitors lining up to romance the single 33-year-old after eight years as Daenerys ­Targaryen in TV hit show Game Of Thrones.
Her latest movie character is a troubled singer called Kate who find love thanks to some holiday cheer... and an elf costume.
But when it comes to wooing Emilia, here’s a big tip – make her laugh.
“If you make me giggle, then I’m in pretty much,” she says. “And someone who is considerate and nice. Like when someone takes you out on a date and they’ve thought about kind of an interesting thing to do... that goes a long way. But a sense of humour is 100% it. If you can laugh with someone, it’s just the sexiest thing in the world.”
That may explain why one of her exes is comedian Seth MacFarlane, who she dated between 2012 and 2013. She also split with US director Charlie McDowell earlier this year.
The Emmy-nominated star says fame has made online dating a no-go, although she did consider making a fake profile. “There was a time. I was definitely tempted.” she says.
But she missed online dating “because I was on people’s television right when it all began. So there are all my single friends being like...” She mimes a swiping finger. “I’m like, ‘What are you doing?’ ‘­Shopping for a boyfriend.’ ‘OK cool.’
“If I wasn’t in the job I’m in, then I definitely would do it, 100% And I feel like it’s not a taboo anymore.”
Alongside a quest for love, Emilia says she can also ­empathise with Kate because they both went through medical traumas.
Emilia has spoken about her life-threatening brain aneurysms.
She explains about Kate: “She had a health crisis at pretty much the same age I did. That time in your life is really confusing and leaves you feeling really lost. You’re like, oh, I’ve survived and I’ve got to get back to this confusing part of my life where I didn’t know what was going on anyway and I’m kind of figuring out who I am and what I want to do.”
Emilia grew up in Oxford with marketing boss mum Jennifer and her sound designer dad Peter. She has said: “When I went with my dad to theatres, I was entranceds.”
She took drama classes and in 2010 her agent called her about a new HBO series called Game Of Thrones.
However, it was during filming Season One that her health began to deteriorate. And, at the age of 24 she suffered the aneurysm.
In 2013, she had an operation to combat another growth on her brain. However, it went wrong and she suffered a “massive bleed”. Emilia says she has “healed” since those health challenges and looking forward to her favourite time of year.
She says: “I still get really excited. Me and my brother are pathetic.
“We’re in our thirties and every single Christmas morning we wake up and get our stockings and then when I started working I got my parents stockings so they didn’t feel left out.
“We all climb into my parents’ bed with the dog and open the stockings and you have your breakfast in bed and everyone comes downstairs in the hat you got over your pyjamas.”
She says George Michael’s song Last Christmas, which features in the film, makes the season even more magical.
She explains: “We’ve not stopped singing it. Anyone who watches this movie will not stop singing it”

        Last Christmas is released on November 15
      
