
# WIW vs INDW | West Indies Women announce T20I squad

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:26:58+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/wi-w-vs-ind-w-west-indies-women-announce-t-20-i-squad?utm_medium=rss)


        West Indies have announced a 14-member women's squad for the five-match T20I series against India which will begin from November 9th. West Indies women will be looking to get their team combinations right as this will be their final home series before the T20 World cup in Australia in February 2020.
      
West Indies Women have announced their squad for the T20I series against India that will be captained by Stefanie Taylor and includes a comeback from Shakera Selman who missed the ODI series against the visitors as she was recovering from an injury. The first two games of the series will be played on consecutive days-9th and 10th of November at the Darren Sammy National Stadium in St. Lucia while the remaining three games are scheduled at the National Stadium in Guyana on November 14, 17 and 20.
"Following the ODI series, the majority of the squad has been retained," said West Indies' women's selector Ann Browne-John, according to IANS.
"Shakera Selman will bring her experience to this team to add more firepower to the bowling attack. The team has always had good performances in T20 matches and this series is vital preparation for the ICC Women's T20 World Cup," she added.
West Indies Women will be keen to find the right blend of youth and experience in order to build a team as they look to make full use of their last home T20I series before the Women's T20 World Cup in Australia in February next year.
Squad: Stafanie Taylor (c), Anisa Mohammed (vc), Aaliyah Alleyne, Afy Fletcher, Shakera Selman, Hayley Matthews, Chedean Nation, Chinelle Henry, Stacey-Ann King, Kyshona Knight, Natasha McLean, Shabika Gajnabi, Shermaine Campbelle, Sheneta Grimmond
