
# We could have played better, admits Stefano Pioli

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:32:04+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/04/we-could-have-played-better-admits-stefano-pioli?utm_medium=rss)


        New AC Milan coach Stefano Pioli admitted that his side could have done better and achieved a respectable result against Lazio at the San Siro. Lazio won all the three points on their trip to San Siro defeating the Rossoneri 2-1 courtesy of goals from forwards Ciro Immobile and Joaquin Correa.
      
AC Milan manager Stefano Pioli spoke during the post-match conference and admitted that his side was sloppy and could have done better in the game, as reported by Calciomercato. The team believed that they could come out victorious against Lazio but instead lost to Biancocelesti. Ciro Immobile gave Lazio the lead, which was also Immobile’s 100th goal in the Serie A for Lazio, before it was nullified by an own goal from Bastos. Joaquin Correa scored the winner for the Rome based club deep in the second half and give them 3 points for the first time at San Siro in the league since 1989.
“I saw some improvements today. We didn't win but we did put in a nice performance. Leao? I was expecting more from him. He has so much potential but he will need to fight more in the coming games. Errors? We were gaining momentum and then we conceded a goal, this clearly can't happen. Even so, at least we have something to build on since the performance was good. We always believed tonight,” Pioli told during the post match conference. 
Milan now sit 11th in the Italian league table with 13 points and the yesterday’s loss was their sixth loss of the league campaign. Meanwhile, Simeone Inzaghi’s Lazio have enjoyed a commanding start to their league season as Lazio sit 4th in the table with just one point behind city rivals Roma. Inzaghi was extremely happy with the team’s intensity and effort during the entire game and hopes that the players will continue to perform in the same manner.
“We have to continue like this, we have to be consistent. We could've done more in the first half but we knew that Milan, who played on Thursday, were going to struggle physically in the second half. Luis Alberto? He is doing great, he deserves the Spanish National team. We have to keep working hard,” said Inzaghi.
