
# Labour unions stand up for techies, say layoffs ‘illegal’

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Akhila Damodaran**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/labour-unions-stand-up-for-techies-say-layoffs-illegal/articleshow/71944142.cms)

Govt should seek explanation from tech companies and protect right to work, says expert After the recent news that over 10,000 employees are being removed by Cognizant and Infosys, IT unions are receiving close to 20 calls from across the country seeking advice on the steps that they can take to protect their right to employment. Experts say the techies who are laid off can seek justice and demand compensation. The Karnataka State IT/ITeS Employees Union says its members will visit the Labour Commissioner on Thursday to discuss the matter and decide on the measures to be taken. Elavarasan Raja, national secretary, Forum for IT Employees - FITE, said, “Many employees do not know what they should do and what their rights are. We help create awareness among them. If we get a call from one employee from a company, we guide them through legal procedure and if there are two or more from the same company, the union files a case against the company.” These companies are saying they are removing employees due to their poor performance. Elavarasan said, “If the employee is not performing well, the company should give feedback and training to the person. He could be given a role in a different department and even then, if he fails to perform well, he should be given a warning and a show-cause notice.” He urged employees to raise their voice and not to succumb to the threats from companies. He added that many employees had fought legal battles and received compensation and even got their job back. “Employees have the right to demand compensation based on their years of experience and personal loans or lifestyle,” he said. As these companies enjoy exemptions due to the Model Standing Orders Act of Karnataka, they think they are free to hire and fire anybody, anytime, he said. However, Maitreyi Krishnan, All India Central Council for Trade Unions, clarified that even the Standing Orders Act does not allow the companies to fire the employees in this manner. “The companies are not exempted from the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The Section 25(N) states the procedure that the employer needs to follow when they are terminating a person,” she said. It states that the workman should be given three months’ notice in writing indicating the reasons for retrenchment and the wages for the period of the notice. The prior permission of the appropriate Government or such authority as may be specified by that Government by notification in the Official Gazette (hereafter in this section referred to as the specified authority) needs to be obtained on an application made in this behalf. The employer also needs to state clearly the reasons for the intended retrenchment and a copy of such application shall also be served simultaneously on the workmen concerned in the prescribed manner. Maitreyi added that the government should hence interfere and seek explanation from the companies. “The government should issue a notice to the companies and call for an inquiry as to why there is a mass lay-off. The lay-off is illegal. The employees can approach the court or the labour department to seek justice,” she said. However, the Karnataka Labour Department said they have not received any official communication regarding the lay-offs. A Cognizant spokesperson said, “We will take great care to ensure that the associates who are leaving are treated with utmost respect and dignity throughout the process.” When asked if the government has approved the layoffs and if warnings were issued to associates who are being removed, they said, “Cognizant complies with all laws and regulations. There are always difficult choices that have to be made when aligning skills to the demand and we will be reskilling and redeploying those whose roles have been affected.” However, Infosys did not respond to our queries. Infosys chairman slams whistleblower complaintsInfosys chairman Nandan Nilekani on Wednesday strongly condemned the whistleblower complaints against the company co-founders, saying these were “mischievous” in nature. Referring to the anonymous complaints in a stock exchange filing, Nilekani said, “These speculations are appalling and seem to be aimed at tarnishing the image of some of the most accomplished and respected individuals. I have deep regard for the life-long contribution of all our co-founders. They have built this institution and have served this company selflessly and even today, remain committed to the long-term success of Infosys,” he said. He reiterated that the company will share the outcome of the external law firm investigation at the relevant time with all stakeholders.
