
# Euromillions winner who scooped £76m prize marries partner at local pub

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:57:31+00:00**

Author: **Elaine McCahill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/elaine-mccahill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/euromillions-winner-who-scooped-76m-20792845)

A Euromillions winner who scooped £76 million in the lottery draw has married his partner in their local pub.
Andrew Clark, 51, and his girlfriend Trisha Fairhurst, 52, tied the knot almost a year after he won the incredible prize last December.
The self-employed builder, of Boston, Lincolnshire, had no idea he was the owner of Britain's biggest ever unclaimed lottery ticket for well over a month.
With a habit of stockpiling tickets in his van, he worked through many cold and wet winter days, unaware he had become a multi-millionaire.
It was only when his partner's niece, Louise, reminded him to check his tickets, tucked in the visor of his Peugeot Expert, that he discovered his win.
 
When he finally called to confirm his win, he was heard saying: "I think I've won a few quid."
When he won the big prize, Andrew was coy about any wedding plans but shortly afterwards Trisha quit her hospital kitchen job, reports The Sun.
They started planning their nuptials and decided to tie the knot in their local wedding venue, The Poachers.
Family and friends gathered at an intimate ceremony and enjoyed a reception at the pub afterwards.
While they didn't go for a celebrity style wedding, the couple have bought a new house and Andy splashed out £700,000 on supercars including a Porsche, a McLaren and a Mercedes.
Despite being worth millions, Trisha has eschewed fancy cars and still drives her £20,000 Nissan Quashqai.
A source told the newspaper: “Andy and Trisha are determined to keep their feet on the ground - it’s only the cars where Andy has really spent money.
“They just wanted a close-knit ceremony with all their family and friends and The Poachers was easy for everyone to get to.
“It might not be fancy but they still had a terrific time.”
Camelot the couple have declined to comment.
