
# Fresh inquest ordered into hyponatraemia death of Raychel Ferguson (9)

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/fresh-inquest-ordered-into-hyponatraemia-death-of-raychel-ferguson-9--1757298/)

A fresh inquest has been ordered into the death of a nine-year-old girl who was one of five children at the centre of a landmark public inquiry.
Raychel Ferguson from Derry died at the Royal Belfast Hospital for Sick Children 18 years ago from a condition known as hyponatraemia.
Failings in her care and those of the other children led to a 14-year-long inquiry which concluded that four of the deaths were preventable.
The inquiry chair, Sir John O'Hara, was also scathing of the "indefensible" culture in which parents were "deliberately misled" by doctors and health trust chiefs intent on "avoiding scrutiny" and protecting their own reputation.
Northern Ireland's attorney general has directed the coroner to open a new inquest into Raychel Ferguson's death.
"All we ever wanted from the start was the truth and we didn't get it," her mother Marie Ferguson told the BBC.
The Western Health Trust said it would not comment on individual cases but it "always cooperates fully and openly in every coroner's inquest".
In 2013, the trust admitted liability for her death.
In June, a second inquest into the hyponatraemia-related death of another nine-year-old girl, Claire Roberts from Belfast, found that serious failings in her hospital treatment had caused her death.
Hyponatraemia is linked to chronically low levels of sodium in blood and can occur when intravenous fluids are given incorrectly.
