
# 'The Little Mermaid': Fun facts to celebrate movie's 30th anniversary

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:35:18+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [ABC7 Los Angeles](https://abc7.com/entertainment/the-little-mermaid-fun-facts-to-celebrate-movies-30th/5666907/)

The Little Mermaid has been "Part of Your World" for nearly 30 years!The classic Disney animated movie hit theaters on November 17, 1989, and was instantly regarded as a hit by critics and fans alike.Yet even the most loyal fishes may not know these fun facts about their favorite "tail."-- Have you ever noticed that colors in the opening scene seem muted? It's because they are! Filmmakers wanted to save the brightest colors for under the sea scenes.-- When we first meet King Triton, he's addressing a group of merpeople. Yet if you take a closer look, you can see Mickey Mouse, Goofy, and Donald Duck in the crowd!-- As many know, "The Little Mermaid" is based on a fairytale by Danish author Hans Christian Andersen. However, at the end of the original 1837 tale, the young mermaid protagonist dissolves and turns into an ethereal spirit.-- In the original story, the sea-witch is not a prominent character. She doesn't even have a name!-- Ursula was originally portrayed as a spinefish or a scorpionfish with lots of spikes and spines. Instead, filmmakers made her a cecaelia, a mythical hybrid between an octopus and a human.-- Did you notice Flounder's face when talking about Scuttle? He physically transforms into the seagull!To celebrate "The Little Mermaid's" 30th, watch "The Little Mermaid Live!" Tuesday at 8|7c on ABC.The Walt Disney Company is the parent company of this station.
