
# Premier league football matches in December will now be free to watch

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:41:15+00:00**

Author: **Molly Holt, https://www.facebook.com/mollyjaholt/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league-football-matches-december-20790925)

If your Christmas break revolves heavily on watching all the festive football matches, Amazon just announced its giving everyone an early present that not even Santa could deliver: free Premier League matches for all.
The online streaming giant has the rights to show all of the fixtures over one midweek in early December and the other over Christmas - including the traditional Boxing Day programme - meaning that everyone can watch it for free.
Easily available on Amazon Prime Video , the service is included in a standard Prime subscription on top of the retailer's famous one day delivery.
Not signed up for Prime? You can still watch everything for free, you'll just need to sign up for a free month's trial as soon as it hits December 1st, and then remember to cancel your order once your free period is up.
If you do want to continue with your subscription afterward, Amazon Prime will set you back £7.99 a month , or £79 for a whole year if you're willing to pay upfront.
As well as access to Prime Video, you also get free next day delivery, Amazon Prime Music, special discounts on Prime Day and ad-free use of Twitch.
After announcing the news that Amazon would have the rights to showcase the Premier League games in December, speculation arose that the free Prime trial could be suspended, to stop people taking out a free trial and cancelling it after they've watched the two rounds of Premier League games.
However, Amazon has since decided not to suspend the introductory offer, perhaps because it would coincide with Christmas but also as the brand believes customers will decide to take up a paid Amazon Prime subscription once the month-long free-trial has ended.
