
# “Electrify The Rich”: Why A New U.K. Government Could Ban Private Jets

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Vetter**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidrvetter/2019/11/04/electrify-the-rich-why-a-new-uk-government-could-ban-private-jets/)

Britain’s election could hold high stakes for the super rich, with the opposition Labour party mulling the backing of a proposed ban on fossil fuel-powered private jets.
The report, “Jet, Set, Go: The case for electric-only U.K. private jet flights from 2025,” examines the potential for the U.K. business aviation market, which is dominated by private jet use, to switch from conventional fuel to electric propulsion.
Among its findings, the report, published by think tank Common Wealth, claims that electric aircraft already in development could cover around 80% of private jet flights between the U.K. and Europe by the mid-2020s.  
Under the hair-raising subheading “Electrify the rich,” the report summary states that a “hard deadline” of 2025 “could serve to bring forward the time-to-market horizons of electric aircraft manufacturers, by triggering an influx of private capital into aerospace research and development.”
Andy McDonald, the U.K. Labour Party’s Shadow Secretary of State for Transport, described the report as “convincing,” and that his party would examine the proposals, saying: “Climate targets cannot be met without curbing pollution from air travel … in just a few years’ time it will be possible for these journeys to be made by electric aircraft—so long as government puts in place the right incentives.”
The largest party in opposition to Boris Johnson’s incumbent Conservatives, Labour are looking to position themselves as leading on environmental issues heading into the general election on December 12.
Leo Murray, one of the report’s authors and the director of innovation for U.K. climate change charity Possible, said he believed the wealthy were keen to do their part to fight climate change. “The people who use private jets are the wealthiest people in the world. If they were to reach into their pockets and put some of that capital into the development of electric aircraft, the impact on emissions would be enormous.” Murray said.
Using data from the European Business Aviation Association and air traffic control organization Eurocontrol, the report estimates that 128,000 private jet flights were made from U.K. airports in 2018, comprising 6% of all flights. The report goes on to state that a single private jet passenger journey within Europe produces at least seven times the emissions as a business class passenger making the same journey.
Speaking to Forbes.com, Murray pointed to controversies this year surrounding Prince Harry’s use of private jets, as well as world and business leaders at Davos. “People don’t believe what you say, they believe what you do,” Murray said. “Accusations of hypocrisy against prominent individuals who campaign publicly against the perils of climate change are intended to harm climate action.”
Murray also noted the ongoing popularity of private jet travel among U.S. tech executives, saying that Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg recorded $5 million in spending on private jets in three years, while in 2018 Google reimbursed former chairman and chief executive Eric Schmidt $1.2 million for the use of his two private planes.
As well as the environmental benefits, the report says investment in the development of electric aircraft will have knock-on benefits for the U.K. economy. “A regulatory countdown to electrify private jets will cement the UK’s aerospace sector’s pole position on the industrial frontier of zero carbon flight,” it states, noting Rolls-Royce’s purchase in June of Siemens’ eAircraft division and all of its electric propulsion activities. The British manufacturer is distinctly bullish about the prospects for electric aircraft, with Rolls-Royce Chief Technology Officer Paul Stein saying: “We believe that pure electric, or all-electric, propulsion will power smaller aircraft in the foreseeable future.”
