
# AnTuTu: Top 10 premium and mid-range smartphones in October 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:20:21+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/antutu-top-10-premium-and-mid-range-smartphones-in-october-2019/)

AnTuTu: Top 10 premium and mid-range smartphones in October 20191.8 (35.79%) 19 votes
As usual, Antutu has just unveiled the ranking of the most powerful premium Android smartphones of the previous month in the Chinese market. Recently, the benchmarking platform accompanies this ranking with the most powerful mid-range smartphones of the month.
On the high end, the first place is occupied by the Vivo NEX 3 5G equipped with 8 GB of RAM and the Qualcomm Snapdragon 855+ SoC. The smartphone is followed by the Vivo IQOO Pro 5G (12 GB RAM and Snapdragon 855+).
Then comes the OnePlus 7T followed by the OnePlus 7T Pro (Snapdragon 855+ and 8 GB of RAM for both variants). The Asus gaming smartphone, the ROG Phone 2, (Snapdragon 855+ and 8GB RAM) drops to fifth place after several months topping the list. As is often the case, Qualcomm’s SoCs dominate the rankings.
Regarding the Mid-range, the Antutu ranking is dominated by the Honor 9X Pro, a smartphone powered by SoC Kirin 810 with liquid cooling and 8 GB of RAM. In the second position, we find the Honor 9X with the same processor but only 6 GB of RAM.
The Honor 20S is third, followed by Xiaomi’s Redmi Note 8 Pro (Helio G90 T and 8GB RAM).
What do you think of this Antutu ranking? Do you use one of the smartphones? We are waiting for your opinion in the comments.
