
# Walter Mercado, Celebrity Astrologer for Millions of Latinos, Dies

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:00:49+00:00**

Author: **Sandra E. Garcia**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/03/world/americas/walter-mercado-dead.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Walter Mercado, the internationally syndicated Puerto Rican astrologer who captivated Latino families around the world with his extravagant televised readings of horoscopes, died on Saturday in San Juan. He was in his late 80s.
His death, at the Auxilio Mutuo hospital, was confirmed by Sofia Luquis, a hospital spokeswoman. The cause was kidney failure, his niece Betty Benet Mercado said.
For 15 years, during the final segment of the Spanish news program “Primer Impacto,” Mr. Mercado, a former dancer and actor, would look into the camera and dramatically read the horoscopes of the 12 zodiac signs, rolling his r’s with gusto and elegantly twirling his hands for emphasis. He found his way into homes in Latin America and the Caribbean as well as in the United States, reaching an estimated 120 million viewers a day.
In sequined capes, blazers and vests, often festooned with baubles and brooches, Mr. Mercado let viewers know whether it was going to be a good month or a bad one, or if they simply had to ponerte las pilas, or get to work.
He ended every segment the same way. “God bless you all, today, tomorrow and always,” he would say, “and I hope you receive from me peace, a lot of peace.” Then, as he brought his hands to his lips to blow a kiss to viewers, he would sign off, “Pero sobre todo, mucho, mucho, mucho amor” (“But above all, much, much, much love.”)
[Read an appraisal of Walter Mercado’s life.]
Walter Mercado-Salinas was born in Ponce, P.R., on March 9, though the exact year is disputed. The hospital gave 1931 as his birth year, but Kareem Tabsch, a director of a forthcoming documentary about Mr. Mercado, said he had seen 1932 on Mr. Mercado’s birth certificate. (His niece simply insisted that “he was ageless.”)
Mr. Mercado began his career in Puerto Rico as a flamenco and ballet dancer, and his love for Spanish dance came from his mother, Ms. Benet Mercado said.
In the 1950s and the ’60s, after graduating from the University of San Juan with a degree in pharmacology, he acted in telenovelas, including “La Mujer de Aquella Noche” and “Renzo el Gitano,” Mr. Tabsch said.
In 1969, Mr. Mercado was invited to appear on “El Show del Medio Día,” a popular daytime show on Puerto Rican television, to promote a play in which he had been cast as a Hindu prince. Before he went on, however, a guest canceled, Mr. Tabsch said, so the host asked Mr. Mercado to come on the show as a guest — not just a promoter — and talk about what he was always talking about: the stars. Three months later, Mr. Mercado was hosting his own one-hour show.
The show ran from 1969 through the early 1990s, syndicated throughout Latin America and appearing in the United States as a late-night show. In 1994, Mr. Mercado was offered his own segment on Univision’s “Primer Impacto.”
“It was a very important window to make my way into many, many homes,” Mr. Mercado said on Univision this year of his time on “Primer Impacto.”
At the peak of his popularity, in the 1990s, he had a radio show and was a syndicated columnist in addition to taping his daily segment. He also began writing a column for People en Español magazine in 1996.
“Walter Mercado has been a part of People en Español since our very beginning,” Armando Correa, the magazine’s editor, said on Sunday. “Walter, with his predictions, always gave us hope.”
Mr. Mercado published annual magazines with his predictions for the coming year, and he wrote several books, including “Beyond the Horizon: Visions of the New Millennium” (1997) and “El Mundo Secreto de Walter Mercado” (2010).
In 2009, Mr. Mercado sued his manager to keep him from using his name, but because he had given his manager the rights to the Walter Mercado trademark in perpetuity in 1995, the court denied Mr. Mercado’s request.
The next year he began using the name Shanti Ananda professionally because of the lawsuit, but a few years later, after a settlement, he reverted to Walter Mercado, Mr. Tabsch said.
For many of his fans — Mr. Tabsch included — watching Mr. Mercado's segment was the first time they saw a gender-fluid man on TV.
“Walter challenged the notion of gender,” Mr. Tabsch said. “He knew he was a pioneer.”
In September, during an interview on “Real America with Jorge Ramos,” Mr. Mercado addressed his sexuality.
“The people want to know is Walter straight, homosexual, metrosexual, bisexual — I don’t care,” he said. “Here I am, I am who I am, that’s it.”
Mr. Mercado tried to offer a sliver of love and light amid the sometimes somber news on “Primer Impacto,” poised to give millions hope for the next day.
“Whether you believe in astrology or not, whether you believe what he said or not, the core of his message is peace and love, and he lived his life that way,” Mr. Tabsch said.

        Continue reading the main story
      
