
# The simple free Amazon Prime trick that gets you first look at Black Friday deals

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:51:27+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hurrell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/simple-free-amazon-prime-trick-17211622)

Amazon has announced Black Friday officially begins on 22 November - a week before the actual Black Friday date.
The timing of the announcement is notable because it means people who want to take part in the Amazon Black Friday sales can now take advantage of a simple online trick to see all of Amazon's deal first.
The retailer is planning to launch daily deals and lightning deals for Black Friday, with the latter running out after a short period of time or until it is fully claimed. That means there will be a rush to secure the best deals.
Those who have signed up for Amazon Prime, the retailer's premium delivery and subscription service, will get a first look at deals by as much as half an hour.
Prime also allows for quicker delivery options and access to films and TV series on Amazon Video either free or at reduced prices. It costs £79 per year or £7.99 per month.
 
There is a way for people to get Prime absolutely free from now until after Black Friday and Cyber Monday this year.
Users can simply sign up for Amazon's free Prime offer. They will get access to Prime for an entire month, meaning it will run out shortly after Black Friday and Cyber Monday.
The deal does not come with any catches. You can cancel the subscription after Black Friday before the first monthly charge comes in and it will not cost you a penny.
By choosing the free deal users will get all the benefits of paying Prime users in time for the Black Friday Amazon sales.
