
# Cavan poet and playwright Tom MacIntyre was a 'powerful force'

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CLAIRE SIMPSON**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/01/news/cavan-poet-and-playwright-tom-macintyre-was-a-powerful-force--1753353/)

FORMER Cavan footballer and writer Tom MacIntyre "created new theatrical forms and language", the Abbey Theatre has said following his death.
The bilingual playwright, poet and short-story writer (87) died on Wednesday night following a long illness.
Born in Bailieborough in Cavan in 1931, Mr MacIntyre was best known for his play The Great Hunger - an adaptation of the Patrick Kavanagh poem of the same name.
He also published several volumes of poetry, short stories, a novel The Charollais and Through The Bridewell Gate, an examination of the 1970 Dublin arms trial.
MacIntyre studied at University College Dublin.
He played football for his county in 1952 and again in 1957 before becoming a teacher in Clongowes Wood College in Co Kildare.
He also taught in Michigan University and in Williams College, Massachusetts.
He won several awards, including the Stewart Parker prize for Caoineadh Airt Uí Laoghaire in 1999.
He was elected a member of Aosdána in 1991.
Most of his plays were first performed at the Abbey Theatre in Dublin.
A portrait of Mr MacIntyre, painted by Belfast artist Colin Davidson, currently hangs in the Abbey's foyer.
Graham McLaren and Neil Murray, directors of the Abbey, said he was an integral part of the theatre's history.
"His work featured Irish themes and characters and eloquently explored time and space, with an instinctive raw energy," they said.
"A man close to the lakes and drumlins of his native home, Tom called on its language, myth, folklore and landscape in his writings.
"Tom has been an integral part of the Abbey's history. Presenting 16 world premieres at the Peacock – perhaps his spiritual home – he was a committed colleague and friend. Encouraging of new talent, Tom was always willing to give of himself. He will be greatly missed."
Chairman of the Arts Council Kevin Rafter said Mr MacIntyre was a "powerful force".
"He delighted in the spoken and written word and over the years his body of work is a careful documentation of the evolution of our language and our culture," he said.
"A firm believer in ghosts and spirits, we will remember and miss him this Samhain eve."
He is survived by his wife Celine and five children, Deirdre, Darragh, Donal, Desmond and Tadhg from his first marriage to Peggy McCarthy.
His son Darragh is a high-profile BBC investigative journalist who worked on Spotlight on the Troubles: A Secret History.
Former Taoiseach John Bruton said Mr MacIntyre, who taught him at Clongowes Wood, "opened my mind to a new view of the world".
"He was unconventional, irreverent and also a very kind person, whose personality inspired many of his students to explore the world of poetry," he said.
