
# Star Wars legend Anthony Daniels on hurt of being left out of movie celebrations

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:50:35+00:00**

Author: **Brian McIver, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/brian-mciver/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/entertainment/celebrity-interviews/star-wars-legend-anthony-daniels-20790451)

Summer 1977.  The whole world is lining up outside ­cinemas to see Star Wars. ­Carrie Fisher, Harrison Ford and Mark Hamill become the most famous and beloved faces on earth as the planet goes lightsaber crazy.
But the man who delivers the first line in the movie and is one of the most visually recognisable images of the entire film and subsequent saga, is nowhere to be seen.
Because while the Star Wars circus was marching on around the world, somebody forgot to invite Anthony Daniels, the man inside droid C-3P0.
 
His character was on the cover of People magazine in the US but the Salisbury-born actor himself admits he was deeply hurt by being left out of much of the publicity campaign, as the studios appeared keen to preserve the mystique of the iconic character.
And having endured the cuts, scratches and the constant physical pain of performing in an ill-fitting metal costume in the baking hot Tunisian desert, he was “beyond distressed” at not getting any ­recognition for his efforts.
42 years later and Anthony, now 73, has just finished wrapping his 11th Star Wars film and is marking the moment by telling the full inside story of life in a golden costume.
From clattering about the desert and being ignored by crew who sometimes forgot there was a person inside the costume, to a triumphant return to the forefront of the Star Wars saga as it concludes later this year, Daniels is thrilled to be sharing his stories with fans properly for the first time in I Am C-3PO: The Inside Story, published this Thursday.
He said: “I didn’t know I was going to write a journey until I’d finished it. There were pitfalls on the way and some things were a little sad to think about and difficult to put down on paper but I wanted to write a book that was honest and frank – and there are plenty of good bits as well.”
 
Referring to his PR snubs after the first movie, he admitted: “It became almost like self-therapy if you will, and again, it isn’t, ‘Oh poor me’, but it did hurt me a lot and those memories are still very strong.
“They are of course tangled around with absolutely wonderful and delightful other memories but that is genuinely how I felt and such dark memories, it’s easy to reawaken them.”
Anthony was a London stage actor recruited by George Lucas in London in 1976 to play the key role of protocol droid C-3P0, with his mime skills seen as good grounding for acting behind a golden mask.
Then he was shipped off to Tunisia and strapped into the suit.
He recalled: “Day one on set, being trapped inside this beautiful and ­carefully decorated costume, which didn’t actually fit me or fit itself.
“That was prefaced by the first time the crew saw C-3P0 walk out into the desert and the look of astonishment and wonder on their faces, everybody staring at me in absolute amazement.
“That lasted about two seconds and  it was a very strong moment but then ­immediately followed by the literal crash course in pain management.”
  
After appearing in the original trilogy, Anthony was brought back in the 90s to reprise the role for Lucas’s prequels.
He said: “There was a strange atmosphere on the set, it wasn’t a comfortable experience and the storylines were not aimed at my age group but I meet people who are now 30 years old who absolutely adore them.
“Now, 20 years on, people remember how they felt and love things like Jar Jar Binks, who drove adults crazy but to 10-year-olds will always be a beloved hero.
“The prequels were not for me. Although we were filming in Australia, and it was a treat to be flown to these places, it was a slightly empty ­experience. I had very little to do and then we moved on.”
The boom of the prequels saw an explosion in Star Wars ­fandom, which Anthony has become a central part of thanks to ­touring concert shows, ­exhibitions and fan conventions. But he initially found it hard to acclimatise to.
He said: “It’s interesting because I didn’t totally get it and I think partly because of the experience of the first movie, where I wasn’t a part of the eventual celebrations.
“I kind of veered away from the whole subject because it was so hurtful. The public acclaim for the movies was there but I never felt a part of that.
“It was 10 years ago, with the concert series I hosted, that I began to ­understand the warmth and the energy. Without the fans, there would only have been one movie.”
In between making the 11 movies (he plays C-3P0 in the nine Skywalker saga episodes plus spin-off Rogue One, and a mine worker in last year’s spin-off Solo) Anthony has also been the face and voice of his counterpart in games, animated series, theme park rides, apps and all kind of merchandise.
But after waving goodbye to Threepio twice already, he feels this farewell is for keeps – on the big screen at least.
While Anthony will not reveal any details about new movie The Rise of Skywalker, the trailers hint at a much more central role again, as seen in a moment where he says he is stopping to take “one last look… at my friends.”
While he has had ups and downs with the previous Star Wars movies, he said it’s been a dream to work with new trilogy mastermind JJ Abrams.
 
He said: “This is why the book is a journey, there were sadnesses along the way but, in the end, it’s magical, and I didn’t know it was going to end like this. I didn’t know JJ would be so wonderful.
“At the end of shooting, everyone was really tired but I had such wonderful kind, fond, loving, memories.
“Saying goodbye three times is quite weird and this time it was a little harder, it was more sentimental. I thought it was the end after Episode Six, I thought it was the end after Episode Three, and now really it is the end.
“Threepio has appeared in so many strange guises that I think he will have a life beyond the actual movies but for him and for me, it’s fine that the Star Wars saga story has come to an end in a really good and ­satisfying way.”
● I Am C-3PO: The Inside Story by Anthony Daniels is published by DK, £18.99. Also available in audio.
