
# Barca-Linked Wonderkid Breaks UCL Records

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:30:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/uefa-champions-league/fc-barcelona-linked-wonderkid-breaks-uefa-champions-league-records/666854)

Red Bull Salzburg wonderkid Erling Haaland, who has been linked with some of Europe's biggest clubs, including FC Barcelona, smashed a UEFA Champions League record held by Kylian Mbappe on Tuesday night, and claimed another one for good measure. 

        Click through the gallery above to see some images of Haaland's Champions League performance against Napoli this week!
      
The Norwegian prodigy became the highest-scoring teenager in a single Champions League campaign when he scored in his side's 1-1 draw with Napoli on Tuesday.
As reported by Marca, the 19-year-old netted his seventh UCL goal of the campaign against the Serie A side, and in doing so, broke the record previously held by Mbappe and Raul Gonzalez for the most Champions League goals by a teenager in a single season.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
        
      
Haaland's tally of seven strikes simultaneously broke the record for the most goals scored after four games, and also saw him become only the fourth player in the tournament's history to net in each of his first four UCL appearances, after Ze Carlos, Alessandro Del Piero and Diego Costa.
The Norway international is the leading goalscorer in the UCL this season, ahead of second-placed Robert Lewandowski, who has scored five times in the competition for Bayern Munich so far.

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
Haaland's form, which has seen him score 23 goals in 17 appearances across all competitions this season, has earned him interest from a number of top European clubs, with LaLiga giants Barcelona said to be keeping a close on eye on his development.
