
# Man City fear repeat of team bus attack by Liverpool fans ahead of Anfield clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-city-fear-repeat-team-20835813)

Manchester City fear another violent attack on their team bus from Liverpool fans ahead of Sunday’s title showdown at Anfield.
City’s bus was pelted by objects, including cans, bottles and flares, as the vehicle made its way through crowds of Liverpool fans to Anfield for a Champions League tie 19 months ago.
The coach windscreen was smashed and damage to the vehicle so severe a replacement vehicle had to be drafted in to take the City squad back to Manchester after their 3-0 defeat.
Ahead of Sunday’s potentially title-race defining game, senior figures from City have sought assurances from their Liverpool counterparts that there will be no repeat of the coach attack.
City have been made aware of social media posts circulating among Liverpool fans in the build-up to the game, talking up another ‘coach greeting’ for their squad on Sunday.
The poster urges supporters to line the streets around Anfield and bring ‘pyro, pints, flags and banners’ to greet the City team bus – just as they did back in April 2018 - and ‘make it like a European night!’.
City were furious no culprits were identified for their part in the coach attack, despite widespread video footage of the prolonged attack being made available to Merseyside Police.
Liverpool issued an unreserved public apology for the attack, which was also condemned by boss Jurgen Klopp, and saw the club fined £17,600 by UEFA.
Merseyside Police came in for criticism for making public the route City’s bus was taking that day, leading to claims that ultimately helped fans plan the coordinated attack in advance.
Police will not be publicising the route City’s bus will take this time, while officers have spoken to fan groups about the social media posts urging another hostile welcome for their opponents.
The rivalry between City and Liverpool has become increasingly bitter in recent seasons, with both teams going head-to-head for the title and clashing on and off the pitch.
Both managers have fuelled the animosity in the build-up to the showdown, with Pep Guardiola branding Sadio Mane a diver and Klopp accusing the City boss of being too preoccupied with Liverpool, as well as throwing in a jibe about City’s perceived “tactical fouls”.
