
# Veteran republican Dickie Glenholmes dies after lengthy illness

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/06/news/veteran-republican-dickie-glenholmes-dies-after-lengthy-illness-1757459/)

GERRY Adams has paid tribute to veteran republican Richard 'Dickie' Glenholmes, who died on Monday after a lengthy illness.
Originally from the Short Strand area of east Belfast, Mr Glenholmes was imprisoned twice for IRA activity, including a lengthy jail sentence in England.
His daughter Eibhlin was once also the most wanted woman in Britain and was a recipient of a so-called 'on the run' letter.
Former Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams said he was a "proud Ballymacarrett man who dedicated his life to the republican cause".
"In the hard years when the British imprisoned him without trial and he was locked away for years in England he kept the faith. So did Lily," he said.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
"A republican in her own right, Lily was the perfect partner to Dickie and a wonderful grounded and strong Irish woman.
"Dickie believed in freedom and in equality. And when the opportunity was created to achieve republican objectives through peaceful and democratic means he embraced it.
"He was also a husband, a father, grandfather and great grandfather who loved his family. To his wife Lily, his children Eibhlin, Richard, Damien and Michelle and to their families I want to extend our deepest condolences," he added.
