
# New York Christmas breaks are currently going from £399pp with flights

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:52:08+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/usa-canada/new-york-christmas-breaks-currently-20825216)

There's something particularly magical about New York City during the Christmas season.
As well as the iconic landmarks from the Empire State Building to the Statue of Liberty, there are heaps of fun activities such as ice skating at the Rockefeller Center's iconic rink while taking in the views of the huge Christmas tree.
Meanwhile shops like Macy's and Saks Fifth Avenue dazzle with their festive window displays, not to mention Central Park looks breathtaking if you're lucky enough to see it in the snow.
The Big Apple doesn't exactly have a reputation for being budget-friendly but thanks to Wowcher's latest deal, you could experience the Christmas magic without breaking the bank.
The vouchers website has teamed up with Via Holiday and is currently offering New York Christmas breaks from £399pp which includes your hotel stay and return flights (there are departures from London Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester and Edinburgh).
It's worth noting that the deal isn't on for long, so if you do find the perfect deal of your dreams then it may be worth snapping it up.
 
When we took a look the cheapest rates were available for travel in late November rather than December (the cheapest break we could see in December started from £599pp).
The price is based on two people sharing a room, so you'll need to buy two vouchers.
 
Only got a bit of annual leave left? You can pick between three- and five-night breaks for travel dates until the 1st January 2020.
The hotel itself boasts a very handy central location; you'll be staying at the 4* Row NYC Hotel which is just a block away from Times Square.
Never been to the Big Apple? Check out our New York City guide with top tips on the best attractions not to miss and the restaurants that need to be on your radar.
Despite its reputation for being pricey - and there are some places where you'll need to splash the cash - it is possible to enjoy the city highlights without blowing all of your holiday money.
To give you a helping hand we've put together a guide for NYC sightseeing on a budget.
