
# Lingvist: The future of human learning? (Review)

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:06:13+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Actual Fluency](https://actualfluency.com/lingvist-review/)

In this post I'm taking a look at Lingvist, a spaced repetition platform. Lingvist uses neural networks and machine learning to offer some of the most innovative language learning software on the planet.
Almost everyone has tried to use flashcards to learn things with.
Whether it's the old-fashioned way of writing the question on one side of a card, and the answer on the other – or online where it's all happening automatically.
And the crazy part is they work ridiculously well.
Spaced repetition works by repeating the information at tactically increasing delays, and hence telling the brain that this piece of information is important.
So for language learning the ideal time to see a word you're trying to learn might look something like this:
20 minutes, 1 hour, 4 hours, 1 day, 3 days, 7 days, 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks…etc etc etc..

        The more reviews you do of a piece of information, the longer you can wait until reviewing it again.
      
This reduces the risk of forgetting the information.
Sounds easy right? Just space the words out and you have a winner.
Well, yes and no.
In this review I'm taking a deep look at how Lingvist is trying to accomplish this.
Table of contents
The biggest problem with implementing the theory of spaced repetition is that we're all different.
We all have different learning backgrounds, histories, cultural awareness, and even personalities.

        So, how could you possibly build a system that accounts for everyone whilst still maintaining the highest accuracy of reviews?
      
You see, in order for a review of a piece of information (like a word in a foreign language) to be the most effective, it should come JUST before you were about to forget it.
Come too late and you've forgotten it, and come too early and you might score poorly on future revisions.
This is where software like Lingvist comes in.
Instead of setting arbitrary delays between revisions, or even worse, asking the user themselves to identify “if they have learnt a word or not” Lingvist uses an algorithm that optimises everything for your learner profile.

        This is visible in how you start out your new profile:
      
As you can see, the software asks me to estimate my current level in German.
Then, following that the software will use my success rate to estimate my actual level.
This allows Lingvist to offer me challenging materials I can learn, and not things I already know that are too easy.
Lingvist founder Maik Müntel was a guest on the podcast in episode 163 and in the episode he shared the mission for Lingvist:
Mait believes, along with a lot of other people that retraining of the workforce will become extremely important in the future as we develop more and more machines to automate jobs that are currently held by people.
Today Lingvist uses machine learning algorithms to hone in on the optimal learning for any given user, at any time.
Lingvist operates a freemium model, which means there are two access levels for everyone.
Unlimited includes every feature (as the name suggests.)
Here's what's included in each membership:
Lingvist Unlimited
Lingvist Free
The main interface of Lingvist looks like a physical flashcard, but with the vocabulary word missing.
It features high-quality human recordings (no synthesised voices here!)
It is possible to disable the English translation in the settings, but I find it impossible to know the context sometimes, so I just keep it enabled.
If you are not being tested by Lingvist to find your level (this only takes about 100 reviews or so.) you'll instead see small dots on top of the card.
These represent the amount of times you need to repeat the card before it moves on to the next ‘phase'
There's really not much to say about the interface other than that. It works really well, and the mobile experience does not suffer in anyway on iOS or Android.
You can also bring up the foreign keyboard if you struggle to make some of the characters on your own keyboard.
The last feature is the statistics. If you click the little bars on the top right of the screen you get shown your daily and historical progress as well as your estimated Vocabulary.
Included with the Unlimited plan. Currently only available with Spanish and German.
A really cool feature of Lingvist is that you can build your own course, and use their neural network and machine learning engine to learn exactly what you need to learn.
It even suggests words you might want to learn.
Like in this example where I typed in actor, and the software automatically suggested Comédien
I think there's massive potential for that, as you can simply paste a list of key words from what you need yourself.
This way you won't have to struggle through learning the same useless travel phrase vocabulary or 15 different types of fish that other software starts out with.
The challenge section are like quizzes that you can use to test your own knowledge. They come in a variety of levels, and feature different types of media.
Some of the challenges you have to listen to an audio file and answer a question right. Other times you simply need to pick the correct answer to a text question.
It's a small thing, but I like it for the variety that it adds to the learning.
Here are the languages you can learn with Lingvist:

        Lingvist Estonian
      
Being based in Estonia, Lingvist also features a special mini-course, where you can learn the top 100 Estonian words to celebrate the centennial of the Estonian rebublic.
What does Lingvist cost?

        Lingvist operates a freemium model, where you can get access to a lot of features for free. The paid subscription cost as little as $7.50 per month, if paid annually.
      
Here are the full, latest prices (October, 2019)
The yearly membership appears to have ridiculous value compared to the monthly fee, but I speculate that the monthly is just hyper-inflated to make the yearly deal seem a lot better.
Assuming about $6/month this is pretty similar to other language learning subscriptions like Babbel, Memrise, and even Duolingo.
I think Lingvist is one of the most innovative spaced repetition companies out there, and I really welcome the addition of the “Course Wizard” to the arena of language learning app features.
It's reasonably priced, and the recordings and sentences are of the highest quality.
The downsides to Lingvist are the limitations on the free model (you'll quickly get banners with your limit being reached, if you're keen.) and the fact that it only offers 4 languages at this point.
Give it a go with the free version, and if you like it — I'd say it's worth those 2 cups of coffee a month to have the full set of features and no restrictions.
Click here to try Lingvist (free)
Memrise – they have a similar philosophy to Lingvist, but having struggled with user-generated content for a long time they are only now on their way back. Not sure of the technical comparison.
Hope you enjoyed my review of Lingvist.
Have you tried it – which spaced repetition software is your favourite?

        
          Disclaimer
        
        : Lingvist is a partner of Actual Fluency and has paid a sponsorship fee for lingvist review to be featured on Actual Fluency. The post is produced by Actual Fluency without any editorial input from Lingvist. Do you want to have your company featured on Actual Fluency? Check out our packages.
      
Just a learner says: at
I have been using lingvist for a long time, its been very useful for a while but then it just became boring because its simply the same thing you seee everyday, i still use it time to time but now I simultaneously use various apps to learn a language.
Reply Close dialog

        Session expired
      
Please log in again. The login page will open in a new tab. After logging in you can close it and return to this page.
>
