
# The Pussycat Dolls might be purring again with a comeback show on the cards

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:57:17+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Music/News/the-pussycat-dolls-might-be-purring-again-with-a-comeback-show-on-the-cards-20191105-2)

Cape Town - Are you missing the synchronised dance moves and sweet vocal stylings of The Pussycat Dolls?
Well! You might just be in luck, according to The Sun, the Don't Cha hitmakers have been rumoured to be getting back together for a massive world tour.
And now it's been claimed they will kick off their comeback with an appearance on the British reality show, on which member Nicole Scherzinger is one of the judges.
A source told The Sun newspaper's Bizarre column: "'The X Factor' producers approached Nicole about the idea of performing with the girls and she jumped at the chance.
The news comes after Kimberly Wyatt recently admitted it would "be a dream" to reunite with the other girls in the band. 
She said about the reunion: "There's nothing I can share, but I'm staying optimistic about it all. I'd definitely be up for it. I'm a mum of three now, so getting back up on stage would be a lovely thing to share with them. The first time I was on stage with the Pussycat Dolls was the most empowering moment of my life. To live in that space again and show my children what that means to be would be a dream."
While speaking about the rumours to E! News Nicole said: "I've heard about those rumours as well. I cannot confirm those rumours. I love my girls, I miss touring with them, we had the best times together."
However she added: "But I can't confirm anything right now. Because I'm so busy, I'm doing three different shows on three different continents."
Compiled by Alex Isaacs. (Sources: E! News, The Sun, Bang Showbiz)

        (Photo: Getty Images)
      
