
# Michelle Keegan oozes sophistication as she launches most glam collection ever

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jefferies, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jefferies/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/michelle-keegan-oozes-sophistication-launches-20804548)

Actress Michelle Keegan has launched her most glamorous collection of party wear pieces yet.
The TV star and part-time designed took inspiration from her own wardrobe, adding an 80’s twist to bring to life a range that is a riot of clashing colours, sparkly sequins, exaggerated sleeve detailing, head turning dresses and sharp tailoring.
Starring in a gorgeous photo-shoot the sultry British beauty models her eponymous collection against an opulent backdrop, providing the ultimate festive styling inspiration to get the party started.
Michelle, 32, said: “This collection is all about being bolder with your style and standing out from the crowd.
"I wanted to incorporate statement sequin looks alongside more pared back tailored pieces to make sure that there is something for everyone to look sensational this party season!”
 
Michelle is pictured wearing show-stopping designs including an emerald green, off the shoulder dress and a glitzy sequin midi dress which are available now at very.co.uk.
The new collection shouts high octane glamour and elegance.
Andrew Roscoe, head of brand at Shop Direct, which operates Very, commented: “With the arrival of the festive season there is an array of events that our customers want to look and feel great for.
"Michelle’s new collection offers our customers the chance to dress for every occasion and celebrate key moments in the lead up to Christmas.”
Meanwhile, Michelle fired back at a fan in a shock outburst after he accused her of asking "silly questions" to her followers.
The Our Girl actress, 32, took to  Twitter  recently to ask if any of her fans had any advice on what to do for dogs who are scared of fireworks.
One responded that most dogs are scared of them so it was pointless to ask anyone for help.
This appeared to anger Michelle, who called him a "d***head" and said he was talking "b*****ks " in a feisty tweet back.
She'd originally posted: "Anyone else’s dog terrified of fireworks???
