
# Unai Emery suggests Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang could become Arsenal's next captain

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:35:14+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/unai-emery-suggests-pierre-emerick-20797758)

Unai Emery has opened up the possibility of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang taking over the Arsenal captaincy on a permanent basis.
Gunners boss Emery is potentially on the look out for a new skipper after Granit Xhaka's x-rated on-field outburst during last weekend's draw with Crystal Palace .
Xhaka, who ripped his shirt off, cupped his ears and told fans to "f*** off" after a reaction to his substitution, was left out of Arsenal's clash with Wolves on Saturday.
The Swiss midfielder could have the captaincy, which he was only given earlier this season, taken off him - although the decision hasn't been made yet.
In his place, Aubameyang was handed the captain's armband for the draw at the Emirates Stadium - and led from the front as he scored the Gunners' opener with a classy finish.
When asked whether the Gabon international will now become his first choice captain, Emery said: "He could be, I think he can take that responsibility and today he did that."
Arsenal fans weren't 100 per cent in agreement that Aubameyang was the right person to lead the Gunners.
But Robbie Savage reckons he is their best player and therefore can lead by example.
"Arsenal fans were having a go at probably their best player in Aubameyang which was completely and utterly strange," Savage said on BT Sports.
"It was not a surprise to see him as captain. I think he's their best player, their most influential player."
Rio Ferdinand hit out at Emery for allowing the Gunners players to make the original decision on who to make captain.
"The situation with the captaincy was something that I thought was very strange at the time it happened and the way its panned out has confirmed my queries," the Manchester United legend told BT Sport.
"Allowing the players to choose the captain… you’re the manager, you go in there and say ‘this is who I want as my captain he [Xhaka] is someone that actually is going to be a little bit of the mirror image of me [Emery] out on the pitch’.
"Either as a character or the way he speaks and conducts himself etcetera but he’s allowing the players to choose the captain.
"For far too long at this club there has been a lack of leadership on the pitch. There’s been a lack of characters."
