
# Workers 'more than £14,000 a year worse off' because of inflation shock research reveals

Published at: **2019-11-05T07:17:43+00:00**

Author: **Brett Gibbons, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/brett-gibbons/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/workers-more-14000-year-worse-17200945)

Workers are more than £14,000 worse off because wages have not kept pace with inflation over the past decade.
The shocking claim from the TUC said years of low pay have driven working families deeper into the red, as real wages have not recovered to their 2008 levels, claiming it was the longest pay squeeze in centuries.
The median employee is £14,278 worse off today than they would be had wages kept pace with inflation since 2008, while, in the same period, unsecured household debt has risen by a third to a record high of £14,177, according to the union organisation.
The TUC said its study showed that, in nominal terms, household debt has risen 1.5 times faster than wages since 2010.
Individual insolvencies are also at their highest level since 2010, with more than 115,000 people "pushed over the financial cliff edge" last year, the report said.
 
TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady said: "People are working harder than ever but wages have stood still for over a decade. Millions of households have been pushed to the financial cliff edge.
"Working-class families have had enough of a system that's rigged in favour of the rich and bosses. We want better than rising debts and jobs on impossible hours that make it hard to see our loved ones.
"So, in this election, we're going to use our votes to rebuild Britain and make politicians put working families first."
The TUC said its study on real wage loss was calculated using data from the 1997-2019 Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings.
