
# Strictly star Alex Scott scolds Claudia Winkleman over One Direction claims

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:56:21+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictly-star-alex-scott-scolds-20806155)

Strictly celebrity Alex Scott was seen telling off host Claudia Winkleman for letting slip that she was being cheered on by a member of One Direction.
During an on-screen chat between Alex and Claudia, the former footballer was left blushing after Claudia revealed that one of the 1D boys was rooting for her to win the show.
Claudia said: "We had to find this out for ourselves because you haven't made a fuss about it.
"You have some major celebrity fans."
 
While Alex replied that she still had some football supporters, Claudia used the moment to cheekily add: "And one of One Direction..."
Visibly shocked, former Arsenal ladies star Alex gave Claudia a sharp nudge and replied: "That was meant to be between us."
The athlete nervously giggled as Claudia apologised, adding: "I didn't say which one. There's millions of them."
However, this was enough to get the rumour mill churning as fans flooded Twitter with their own speculations.
One posted: “I wanna know who from one direction is a fan of Alex … I have a feeling it's Niall #Strictly."
Another begged: “Alex has a One direction fan?? I need to know who it is @ClaudiaWinkle tell us please! @AlexScott spill the beans! #Strictly."
While a third pondered: “Wonder which member of one direction is a of Alex? #Strictly."
Alex is partnered with Strictly pro Neil Jones, but has been performing with last year’s winner Kevin Clifton for the last two weeks as Neil sits out with injuries.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at  webtv@trinitymirror.com  or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
