
# Rashford still believes top-four finish is attainable

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:59:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/rashford-still-believes-top-four-finish-is-attainable-20191107)

Cape Town - Manchester United striker Marcus Rashford is refusing to give up on a top-four finish, saying it's "nowhere near impossible".
The Red Devils are 10th in the Premier League table after picking up just 13 points from their first 11 games, with Rashford scoring five goals in that time.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's troops have won only three games all season and defeats to Crystal Palace, West Ham United, Newcastle United and Bournemouth have put the pressure on the Norweigan.
They are now ten points behind Leicester City and Chelsea who currently occupy third and fourth in the top flight.
After drawing with Liverpool and beating Norwich, United looked to have found their rhythm, with Anthony Martial and Rashford causing problems.
Martial and midfield ace Paul Pogba have struggled with injury problems all season but Rashford believes they will go close once they are all fit and ready to play.
He told Soccer Saturday: "It's going to be tough (to get into the top four), but it's nowhere near impossible. We don't need to focus on any other teams; we play our best football when we focus on ourselves and us improving.
"Old Trafford is a special place, and if we do that with the fans behind us, it's a tough place to come.
"With the tempo, we play at when we're at our best, it's very hard to stop us so we use it as a template, and we need to get back to doing that."
United will try to return to winning ways on Thursday when they take on Partizan in the Europa League group stage.
The north-west giants can progress from Group L with a win on home soil before they then take on Brighton & Hove Albion at Old Trafford.
After a two-week international break, they then face Sheffield United at Bramall Lane.

        
          - TeamTalk Media
        
      
