
# Radio announcer shot dead in Dumaguete City

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:43:10+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Manila**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/manila/news/radio-announcer-shot-dead-in-dumaguete-city/)

A radio broadcaster was shot dead by unknown gunmen this morning in Dumaguete City, in Negros Oriental province.
Dindo Generoso, 67, was driving his brown Hyundai Elantra to work at radio station DYEM when he was ambushed along the city’s Hibbard Avenue at about 7:30am, Manila Bulletin reports. Generoso, who ran for city mayor in 2016 but lost, died from four gunshot wounds, according to ABS-CBN News.

        Read: Suspect in tabloid columnist’s killing identified by government
      
The executive director of the Presidential Task Force on Media Security, Joel Sy Egco, vowed that the Generoso’s killers would not go unpunished.
“Whoever is behind this senseless murder will be brought to justice,” Egco said in a statement.
The government task force is responsible for keeping track of all acts of violence perpetrated against members of the media.
In a statement, the National Union of Journalists of the Philippines noted that the motive for Generoso’s killing is not yet clear, but added that if it were indeed work-related, it would make him “the 14th journalist to be murdered under the Duterte administration and the 187th since 1986.”
Genoroso is the second Dumaguete City-based radio journalist to have been ambushed by unknown gunmen within the past year. The last one was Edmond Sotoso, who was killed in April 2018.
Generoso’s death also comes just weeks after the killing of tabloid columnist Jupiter Gonzales in Arayat town in Pampanga.
The International Federation of Journalists has said the Philippines is one of the most dangerous places in the world to practice journalism. A 2018 report released by the group identified at least 85 cases of acts against journalists between June 2016 and May 2018, including murders, attempted murders, death threats, online harassment, and police surveillance.
