
# Virat Kohli writes an emotional note to 15-year-old 'Chiku' on his 31st birthday

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:24:26+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/news/virat-kohli-writes-an-emotional-note-to-15-year-old-chiku-on-his-31st-birthday/articleshow/71917991.cms)

NEW DELHI: From a chubby-cheeked 'Cheeku' (Virat Kohli's nickname) to a fitness freak and hands down one of the fittest athletes in the world, Virat Kohli is a prime example of what hard work, determination and discipline can achieve. With his on-field discipline and unparalleled fitness routine, the India captain has taken Indian cricket to a different level.

        ALSO READ: Virat Kohli turns 31, wishes pour in for Team India captain
      
Kohli has a plethora of records under his belt and the India captain has earned a place among cricketing greats in a short period of time. And, his appetite for scoring runs has only been increasing as he is getting older.
On his 31st birthday, on Tuesday, Kohli put up a note on twitter that he has written to a 15-year-old 'Chiku' (Kohli's nickname) and put the hashtag 'NoteToSelf'.
It's an insight into the life lessons Kohli has learnt over the years that have helped him continue to hone his skills and become the best version of himself.
It's an emotional message that also talks about the importance of family and how not getting something (in this case a pair of shoes he wanted which he didn't get from his father on his birthday) from a loved one must never get in the way of our love for family. And how parents' love and support are much more important than what gifts they get their kids. It also talks about the importance of making every day count.

        Kohli's full message to a 15-year-old 'Chiku':
      

        Hi Chiku,First of all, a very happy birthday! I am sure you have a lot of questions for me about your future. I am sorry but I am not going to answer too many of them. Because not knowing what's in store makes every surprise sweet, every challenge thrilling and every disappointment an opportunity to learn. you don't realize it today but it's more about the journey than the destination. And the journey is SUPER!
      
