
# Kilwinning Rangers boss says top of the table clash against Pollok is 'free hit' for his side

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:45:27+00:00**

Author: **Eric McGowan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/eric-mcgowan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/kilwinning-rangers-boss-says-top-20792620)

Kilwinning Rangers boss Chris Strain reckons Saturday’s top of the table clash against Pollok is a free hit for his league leaders.
Buffs head to Newlandsfield in a hastily arranged fixture knowing a win will send them five points clear of second-placed Lok with a game in hand.
But Strain insists all the pressure is on the Glasgow giants to get a result – because his target this season is simply to stay in the top flight.
Strain said: “When you compare the budgets of the two teams, Pollok should be looking to win. They have the best resources by a mile and this is a far more important game for them than us.
“I’m seeing it very much as a free hit. We’re sitting top at the moment and that’s nice from a vanity point of view, but all we are focusing on is reaching the 30-point barrier which is normally enough to keep you in the division. Our chairman has made it clear that finishing in the top half would be be a success for us this season.
“We’re only three points off 30 at the moment which is remarkable and testament to the efforts the players are putting in.
“Nobody expected us to be in this position so we won’t get too up or down no matter the result.”
Pollok won 3-0 when the sides met at Buffs Park in September.
Strain added: “To be honest, it’s a game we could without because there’s a bit of a virus going around the club and a few players nursing knocks and bruises.
“But the players will certainly feel they have a point to prove after losing last time round. It was definitely a bad day at the office but I’ll have them well up for it on Saturday that’s for sure.”
