
# Conway: Impeachment Probe Vote Doesn't Apply Retroactive Due Process

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:27:24+00:00**

Author: **Kristina Wong**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/01/kellyanne-conway-house-impeachment-inquiry-vote-doesnt-apply-due-process-retroactively/)

Asked whether the White House would cooperate with the impeachment inquiry, she directed reporters to the October 8 letter White House counsel Pat Cipollone wrote to House Democrats, calling it “unconstitutional” and “illegitimate.”
Asked if the vote changed things, she responded:
Conway also criticized House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) for forging ahead with an impeachment inquiry despite the American public being deeply divided over whether President Trump should be impeached and removed:
Conway noted that the vote was not bipartisan and that two Democrats actually voted against the impeachment inquiry, whereas no Republicans voted for it.
Conway said:
She dismissed national polls showing that a higher percentage of Americans want to impeach and remove Trump than do not.
“I never did a single national poll when I was campaign manager, why would that be relevant, you got to look state by state, and in those states where these members are,” she said.
Conway pointed out that 31 Democrats in red states that backed Trump in 2016 are vulnerable now that Pelosi pushed for an impeachment inquiry vote.
“I also don’t understand why Nancy Pelosi sacrificed so many of her members yesterday,” she said. “She represents a safe district, but they don’t.”
Conway also argued Democrats were so obsessed with impeachment that they were not getting anything else done.
“I’m concerned that if the Democratic Congress continues to obsess about one issue to the exclusion to everything else, that we need them to help with, and that they committed they would get done — it’s that simple.”
“They’re simply not doing the business of America,” she told reporters. “Impeaching the president is not, as far as I know, not in the top three of the burning issues that the country wants you to focus on.”
She recalled after two shootings over the summer that Democrats vowed to pass gun control legislation.
“Now they don’t even mention it,” she said. “They’re not interested in anything but removing the president of the United States.”
 

        
          Follow Breitbart News’s @Kristina_Wong.
        
      
