
# UFC 244 ‘Fight Motion’ Video: Watch Slow-Motion Highlights From Masvidal Vs. Diaz Fight Card

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/04/ufc-244-fight-motion-video-watch-slow-motion-highlights-from-masvidal-vs-diaz-fight-card/)

On Saturday, Jorge Masvidal scored a third-round TKO win over Nate Diaz. The fight came to an end when the cageside physician decided the damage Masvidal had done to Diaz’s right eye was too bad to allow the fight to continue. With the stoppage, Masvidal became the BMF champion, he also scored his third knockout win of 2019 and set himself up for some potentially big things in 2020.In the co-main event, former UFC welterweight title challenger Darren Till moved up to middleweight to match up against ex-interim title challenger Kelvin Gastelum. Till won that contest by split decision. The victory ended Till’s two-fight losing skid.
Before the headlining bouts, ex-welterweight title challenger Stephen Thompson got back in the win column with one of his better performance in recent memory. Thompson did his best to stop Vicente Luque with strikes, but he could not put his game opponent away. Instead, Thompson settled for a decision victory. The scrap won “Fight of the Night” honors.
The pay-per-view opener featured a perfectly executed head kick knockout from Kevin Lee. Lee was riding the first two-fight losing skid of his career when he stepped into the octagon to face the undefeated Gregor Gillespie, who is one of the best wrestlers in the UFC. Lee wasted no time testing the striking game of his opponent. Lee set up the finishing blow well, leading Gillespie right into the head kick that knocked him completely unconscious at the 2:47 mark of the first stanza. Lee won a “Performance of the Night” bonus for his win.
In the final fight of the prelims, Corey Anderson surprised many when he knocked out Johnny Walker in 2:07. Anderson has been one of the most dominant takedown artists in the UFC since he joined the promotion, but he had not scored a knockout win since 2016. Anderson won a “Performance of the Night” bonus for his stoppage. It was Anderson’s first bonus since 2015. 
UFC 244 took place at Madison Square Garden. You can watch the slow-motion video highlights from the event below.
More From UFC 244:
