
# Black Friday 2019 Ad Preview: Kohl’s Biggest Deals

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/gordonkelly/2019/11/05/black-friday-2018-ad-preview-kohls-biggest-deals-xbox-one-x-nintendo-switch-google-amazon-echo-dot-tv-sales/)

This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes and the author may receive a small share of that sale.Black Friday sales are already live with the first deals from Amazon, from Walmart, from Best Buy and from Costco. But now Kohl’s Black Friday 2019 ad scan is here and its biggest deals are some of the best you’ll find all holiday sales season. 

        Walmart Black Friday 2019 Sales: What We Know So FarForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Kohl’s Black Friday 2019 Ad Scan And Shipping
      
Instantly capturing attention is the size of Kohl’s Black Friday ad. At 64-pages, it’s a monster with a massive range of deals. Less impressive, however, is the shipping policy with the store requiring a $50 minimum spend for free delivery. That said, almost all the top deals will require you to spend more than $50. 

        Kohl’s Black Friday 2019: Current Live Sales 
      
Some of Kohl’s best deals are already live. These are my top picks:

        Apple Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      

        Kohl’s Black Friday 2019: Biggest Deals
      
These deals will not go live until November 25 but do not forget them because they are some of the best you will find during Black Friday 2019:

        Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The First DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
      
Once again Kohl’s is really standing out from its rivals thanks to Kohl’s Cash. As such it is likely to have the top Xbox, Switch, PS4 Slim, Google Nest and Beats Black Friday deals this year. Kohl’s will also beat Amazon’s best deals on its own products when Kohl’s Cash is involved. 
The only disappointing omissions the lack of a PS4 Pro deal (perhaps it will come for Cyber Monday) and any further TV offers, though this shows Kohl’s current live sales are the real deal right now. 
Looking for more Black Friday live deals? Check out my store-by-store Black Friday live sales for Amazon’s best deals, Walmart’s best deals, Best Buy’s best deals, Costco’s best deals and my roundups of the top live Apple deals and biggest Samsung savings. 
Follow Gordon on Facebook

        More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes
      
