
# After Ruling The Analog World For Years, Are The Ad Giants At A Risk Of Becoming Obsolete

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Avi Dan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/avidan/2019/11/03/after-lording-over-the-analogue-world-for-years-are-the-ad-giants-becoming-obsolete/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

A small number of holding companies have come to dominate Madison Avenue after decades of acquiring smaller, independent agencies in a range of disciplines. In 1985, the biggest agency accounted for just 2% of the advertising market. Twenty years later, just five holding companies accounted for almost 70% of the market. The result is immense complexity as the holding companies had to manage hundreds of operating units. The subsidiaries’ relationships with the parent company is purely financial, but they otherwise operate independently.Despite the complexity, this model has been profitable for years. But in this era of disruption, it’s becoming obsolete. In the last 4 years, $25 billion were wiped off the market cap of the big advertising companies – WPP, Omnicom, Publicis Groupe, Interpublic, and Dentsu. 
While the entrepreneurial agencies that popped up on Madison Avenue during the creative revolution of the ‘60s and ‘70s were distinctive and innovative, the holding companies are interchangeable. They pursue roughly the same strategy of relying on scale. They have the what and the same operating philosophy. As a result, advertising has been commoditized. Sameness and homogeneity are a handicap in a business that thrives on individuality and nonconformity. 
The holding companies have lost relevance, emphasizing distribution and scale over creativity. To regain relevance, they need to focus on creativity and attract and retain the most creative talent in the world. However, publicly traded companies rarely provide a great background for creative transformation. In fact, when holding companies acquire the entrepreneurial energy of start-ups, they often replace the drive and creativity with short-term, financially driven corporate structure.
Other challenges at the holding companies are further speeding the decline of their existing model. The proliferation and fragmentation of marketing platforms and channels, for example, demands best-in-class teams capable of creating integrated customer experiences. Great talent is in high demand but alarmingly in short supply, and therefore should no longer be confined to vertical brands.
The siloed agencies, meanwhile, are competing against their own siblings for client engagements. They respond to the same RFPs, duplicate capabilities, and compete on the basis of price. Clients have taken advantage of this by imposing a “cost-plus” pricing model, resulting in margin pressure, particularly on creative agencies which are labor intensive.
The growing need to develop new capabilities is yet another pressure point on the current model. Executing on strategies like data, or leveraging emerging technologies, requires investment at a scale that is possible to achieve across agencies — but not at the individual agency brand level.
To regroup and adopt a better strategic position, the holding companies must fundamentally rethink their organizational structures so that they can serve clients better, cheaper, faster.
With the growing complexity of the tech platforms, changing consumer habits, and cost pressures, clients are increasingly demanding unified, agile and collaborative teams that can work across disciplines and agencies. 
The holding companies have begun to integrate their operations, but they aren’t changing fast enough. They integrated the back-office functions, the low-hanging fruit. The centralized IT and finance as well as legal, real estate, and HR. In the last few years they also started centralizing the so-called middle-office functions: production, acquisition, data management, and analytics. 
However, marquee practices such as creative services and account planning are not shared between brands. Therefore, despite some steps toward greater alignment, stubborn problems are preventing the transformation.
In most cases where integration is happening at the parent-company level, collaboration is overlaid atop the existing agency brands. As a result, the structure is not as effective as it should be, and managers of the consolidated business units are not adequately empowered.
Fearing loss of revenues, holding companies maintain the underlying agency brand structure. As a result, the landscape continues to be crowded with sub-brands that confuse their clients.
The status quo is not sustainable. To survive, each holding company needs to evolve into a single, unified business unit that merges all disciplines: creative, digital, media buying, PR, branding and research agencies into a single bundled agency. It’s the best structure for providing a truly integrated marketing experience. 
Clients want a simplified, comprehensive solution under one roof. Their needs and expectations are evolving rapidly, and senior brand owners are seeking partners capable of designing integrated, end-to-end, omnichannel customer experiences.
They see the current model, in which they are forced to engage multiple agencies to address multiple disciplines, as an impediment to efficiency.
