
# Pep Guardiola finds common ground with Liverpool rival Jurgen Klopp over fixture congestion

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:56:17+00:00**

Author: **Mark Critchley**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/premier-league/liverpool-news-latest-klopp-efl-cup-aston-villa-pep-guardiola-man-city-a9181131.html)

Pep Guardiola is in complete agreement with Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp regarding the fixture congestion faced by Premier League clubs.
Liverpool are holding discussions with the EFL Cup organisers in order to find a suitable date for their quarter-final with Aston Villa.
Klopp’s side travel to Qatar to compete in the Club World Cup on the week of 17-18 December, when the other EFL Cup quarter-finals are scheduled to be played.
The tie is likely to be rearranged for early January, though potential FA Cup third round replays could cause further congestion issues down the line.
Klopp has suggested Liverpool could pull out of the competition if no viable date is found and Guardiola sympathises with his rival manager.
“I completely agree,” the Manchester City manager said. “Less fixtures, less competions, more recovery, we play 27 and 29 [December] in winter time. 
“It is always the debate, in Uefa meetings always they talk about it. I’m with Jurgen when he makes these kind of statements about too much.”
Like Klopp, Guardiola said he is forced to prioritise competitions and put his faith in young players in the EFL Cup because the workload on his first-team squad is so high.
“Yes I prioritise by not playing Gundogan and Kevin, no [David] Silva in this competition. I think that Jurgen and Arsenal have done the same.  Except [Manchester] United, for the situation they have. 
“For the others the competition is good to rotate the team and for those other players who don’t play too often. But yes, it is too much.”
