
# Felice 56 Brings Tuscan Finesse in Both Cuisine and Style to Midtown New York City

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Mariani**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnmariani/2019/11/05/felice-56-brings-tuscan-finesse-in-both-cuisine-and-style-to-midtown-new-york-city/)

         New York has more than its share of posh, high-end Italian restaurants, but Felice 56 is the first of real significance since Lincoln Ristorante at Lincoln Center opened ten years ago. (Last year’s Leoni made an attempt in décor, but the food fell well short.) Indeed, Felice 56, has overcome the problems of a subterranean, windowless space that used to house a dreary David Chang restaurant through congenial lighting, the drama of high ceilings and a gorgeous landscape mural, making this one of the most beautiful new restaurants in the city. 
         The designers created drama by making the double staircase a shadowy descent, opening onto a large room and dazzling lounge done in soft leathers, oiled, stained wood, white tablecloths and colorful area rugs, adding palm trees in the middle of it all for extra effect. The sound level is genteel. (Upstairs is a pastry and coffee bar.)
         The restaurant is part of SA Hospitality Group, which also runs several Sant Ambroeus far more casual eateries around town. One of the company’s partners, Jacopo Giustiniani, contends Felice 56 is a “truly authentic Tuscan experience,” whatever that means, for there are, happily, several non-Tuscan dishes on the menu from other Italian regions, like Rome’s cacio e pepe and carbonara. 
         No matter. The food here, under Executive Chef Adrian Kercuku, is excellent, from antipasti to dolci, and pricing is not unreasonable for this degree of sophistication and fine cuisine—no $30 risottos as at Leonti or $37 pastas as at Ai Fiori or outrageous $179 tasting menus at Del Posto. The wine list is extensive and being built month by month, with prices with rational mark-ups: a Grifi Avignonesi we ordered at $70 goes for $35 in a wine store.  A bottle of sparkling water for nine bucks is, however, out of whack. Drink the New York tap instead.
        
 When you sit down you’ll have an array of freshly baked breads to choose among, with Tuscan olive oil for dipping.
         Don’t ignore the appetizers here: Fritelle (fritters) with prosciutto and ricotta proved irresistible at our table ($17). Pop-in-the-mouth crocchette de riso ($15) are firm rice bites with tomato and taleggio cheese, coated with breadcrumbs. Battuta di manzo (pricey at $27) is impeccably chopped Black Angus beef with Parmigiano and mustard seeds, and pristine fluke crudi ($21) with a citrus-pistachio pesto was superb. Out-of-the-ordinary cheeses and charcuterie ($7-$13) like finocchionawith fennel, Sienese salame, and a creamy blu del mugello, made from cow’s milk with blueberries.
         
Each of the pastas we tried was first-rate, all made on premises, all perfectly cooked to the right texture. That Roman cacio e pepe ($21) was made with thick tonnarelli noodles napped with both pecorino and Parmigiano and cracked black pepper. Pici all’aglione ($19) is a short, egg-rich Tuscan pasta with garlic sauce and roasted plum tomatoes that gave it a smoky flavor, and pumpkin pasta ($23) of poached butternut squash, crumbled amaretti cookies, a reduction of red wine called saba and Parmigiano ($36) was ideal for autumn.  Each night here is a special ravioli, made with fine, delicately rolled pasta ($30). There’s also an unusual pappardelle al cacao ($25) made with cocoa nibs pressed into the pasta, served with a lusty short-rib ragù, Chianti-based tomato sauce, cracked black peppercorns and rosemary.
         
Main courses stay true to the simplicity of Italian secondi: the branzino ($41) comes with tangy sun-dried tomatoes, olives and a delightful almond pesto, while braciola di pollo ($28) is grilled pounded chicken breast with oven-roasted pumpkin and  heirloom carrots. I was very pleased with an arrosto (roast beef) in thin slices slowly cooked and served with a cipollini onion confit and aromatic herbs ($37).
         Given its on-premises café, Felice 56 produces a wide array of pastries, as well as gelati and sorbetti brought in from Sant Ambroeus. The torta della nonna ($9)—“grandma’s tart”—couldn’t be simpler, made from sugar dough,  vanilla cream and pine nuts, while, while fritelle di bosco e zabaioneis a lovely rendering of a berry salad with whipped vin santo cream ($14), and the zuccotto ($12) is an old-fashioned Florentine  alchermes cake with fior di latte cream, orange confit and  chocolate.
As a fine ristorante of real style and considerable finesse, Felice 56 joins Il Gattopardo, Barbetta, Lincoln, Ai Fiori and Marea in New York’s top rank for Italian cuisine. Nothing could be more welcome at a time when too many New York trattorias are just going through the motions.
Open for lunch Mon.-Fri., for breakfast and dinner daily.
FELICE 56
Chambers Hotel
15 W 56th Street 
646-437-7272
         
