
# Tottenham forward Son Heung-min red card for tackle on Andre Gomes overturned

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:40:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50309594?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)


        Tottenham forward Son Heung-min's red card for his tackle on Andre Gomes has been overturned by the Football Association.
      
The tackle led to the Everton midfielder's horrific ankle injury,.
Referee Martin Atkinson initially showed Son a yellow card before he changed it to red.
The South Korea forward was sent off for serious foul play but an independent regulatory commission has upheld a claim of wrongful dismissal.
"Son was devastated after the action," said Tottenham boss Mauricio Pochettino.
"It was a mix of everything; it was a mix of the injury, a mix of the red card, the situation of the game - it was an emotional moment for everyone.
"Now after a few days, everyone is available to play. He is in a very good way. He feels sorry like everyone, but he is in good form."
Television replays suggested that Gomes suffered the injury after Son's tackle and before he collided with full-back Serge Aurier.
Gomes has been released from hospital after surgery to repair a fracture dislocation to his right ankle.
Explaining Atkinson's decision, the Premier League said: "The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player, which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
Pochettino said the forward had no intention of injuring Gomes and believed the video assistant referee system should have been used to overturn the sending off.
"I was confident," said Pochettino about the decision being overturned. "We were all confused after the game. I was talking with different people and the referee, too.
"There was confusion, but now it is completely fair that in the end he is not going to be suspended.
"But we cannot change the result. Playing with 10 men opened the game for them and we ended losing the two points."
