
# Election 2019 Virginia Legislature

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:11:22+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/latest-northam-says-gun-safety-152453840.html)

1 / 11Candidate for the 94th District, Shelly Simonds, celebrates with supporters as election results begin to come in Tuesday, Nov. 5, 2019, at the Marriott in Newport News, Va. (Rob Ostermaier/The Virginian-Pilot via AP)
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) — The Latest on Virginia's elections (all times local):
11:10 a.m.
Republicans have held on to a Richmond-area Senate seat as Sen. Siobhan Dunnavant defeated Democratic challenger Del. Debra Rodman in a race dominated by attack ads over gun control and abortion.
Dunnavant, an OB-GYN, blasted Rodman for co-sponsoring a bill that would have loosened rules for a legal, third-trimester abortion by reducing the number of doctors required to find that the procedure was necessary for the life or health of the mother.
Rodman is a freshman delegate who flipped the 73rd District House seat blue amid a Democratic wave in 2017. She criticized Dunnavant for not supporting greater gun restrictions.
The 12th District covers portions of Henrico and Hanover counties.
It was one of the most expensive state Senate races in Virginia history.
___
10:25 a.m.
Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam says Democratic gains in this week's elections were largely powered by voters who wanted commonsense gun laws.
Northam said at a cabinet meeting Wednesday morning that he's going to push for the same gun safety laws he proposed at a special session earlier this year called in response to a mass shooting in Virginia Beach.
The governor noted that Republicans adjourned that session after less than 90 minutes "with no results."
Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security Brian Moran says it's going to be "a new day."
___
12:30 a.m.
Virginia Democrats are promising swift action on a host of liberal policy proposals now that they've taken control of the statehouse for the first time in more than two decades.
Democratic leaders promised to raise the minimum wage and enact new gun restrictions after flipping control of the House and Senate on Tuesday.
Suburban voters turned out in big numbers to back Democratic candidates, continuing a trend of once GOP-friendly suburbs turning blue since President Donald Trump's election.
Democrats now hold every statewide office in Virginia as well as majorities at the General Assembly. They have also promised to approve the Equal Rights Amendment, making Virginia the final state needed for possible passage of the gender equality measure.
