
# Mah Sing eyeing for prime land for affordable housing projects

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:11:32+00:00**

Author: **Chin Wai Lun**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/mah-sing-eyeing-prime-land-affordable-housing-projects)

PETALING JAYA (Nov 1): Mah Sing Group Bhd will continue to acquire land in strategic locations for affordable residential property development to meet market needs, said the group founder and managing director Tan Sri Leong Hoy Kum.
“As a market driven developer, our focus is in acquiring prime lands at strategic locations to allow us to plan our residential products to be affordable without compromising the quality and facilities to further enhance the lives of home buyers,” he said during the M Arisa sales gallery opening ceremony in Sentul yesterday.
The 3.31-acre freehold project carries an estimated gross development value (GDV) of RM652 million, offering 1,598 serviced residences across two 55-storey towers.
Built-up sizes for units range from 550 sq ft to 1,008 sq ft with one to four-bedroom unit choices. Selling price starts from RM299,000 to RM650,000.
The residential development will have a range of amenities including a multi-level sky garden, co-working spaces, green features such as a rainwater harvesting system and electric vehicle charging stations.
Leong noted that Sentul has becoming a popular location for homebuyers, for the easy accessibility to city centre and proximity to various amenities.
“We identified Sentul as an ideal location for home seekers due to its strategic position with ready access to lifestyle amenities and infrastructure as it is located within the matured neighbourhoods of Batu Caves, Gombak, Kepong, Segambut, and Setapak,” he said in the press statement.
M Arisa is highly accessible via various highways such as the Duke Highway and Middle Ring Road 2 (MRR2). Nearby public transportations include the Sentul Timur LRT station, Sentul and Kampung Batu KTM stations.
It is also the second affordable residential development by Mah Sing in Sentul after its M Centura, which was launched in 2017 and recorded an over 90% take-up rate in two years.
“Echoing the success of M Centura, we understand the needs of the buyers today, which is why M Arisa’s design concept and features are in line with the current market trends,” said Mah Sing CEO Datuk Ho Hon Sang.
