
# 9to5Rewards: Enter to win a MacBook Pro and get Infinity Cable up to 60% off [Giveaway]

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:30:01+00:00**

Author: **Sponsored Post**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/01/macbook-pro-giveaway-infinity-cable/)

There’s still time to enter our latest giveaway to celebrate the launch of the new Infinity Cable from Chargeasap. In addition to your chance at winning Apple’s latest MacBook Pro, you can also get up to 60% off the new Infinity Cable – the first magnetic cable with interchangeable connectors for USB-C, Lightning and micro-USB and 100W Power Delivery support:
Head below to enter:
he new Infinity Cable is a 6.5ft nylon cable with interchangeable magnetic connectors for USB-C, Lightning and micro-USB. Not only does that mean you can use a single cable with all of your devices, it also brings back Apple’s MagSafe-like functionality that allows the cable to safely disconnect if someone trips or something gets snagged on it.
While there are other magnetic cables on the market that are cross device compatible, this is the first with full support for 100W Power Delivery and Qualcomm Quick Charge 3.0 and 4.0, meaning you’ll be able to charge your MacBooks, iPad Pro and any other device at full speed. It also has full data transfer capabilities in addition to charging, which is not something all the other magnetic cables can claim.
You can grab your Infinity Cable now for up to 60% off its expected retail price with early bird pricing on Kickstarter now starting at just $25 per cable set.
Enter your name and email below (one submission per email address) to sign up for Chargeasap’s and 9to5Mac’s newsletters for your chance chance to win Apple’s latest MacBook Pro (13-inch, 1.4GHz Quad-Core Processor with Turbo Boost up to 3.9GHz. 128GB Storage, Touch Bar and Touch ID). Entries are open until Nov 18, 2019. Open to readers in US and Canada only. If you are viewing this on mobile and don’t see the option to enter, click here.

        MacBook Pro 2019 Giveaway
      
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
