
# Nepal: Migratory birds start flying into Rara as cold sets in

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:15:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/nepal-migratory-birds-start-flying-into-rara-as-cold-sets-in)

 
by Raj Bahadur Shahi

        KATHMANDU (The Kathmandu Post/ANN) - Different species of ducks, especially Siberian ones, visit Rara every winter, conservationists say.
      
With the onset of winter, migratory birds have started arriving in Rara to escape the freezing cold in Europe and northern parts of Asia.
Officials at the Rara National Park said that different species of ducks, especially Siberian ones, visit Rara every winter. Lal Bahadur Bhandari, conservation officer of the park, said that around 49 species of birds (found in the wetland area) flock to Rara from mid-October to mid-January.
According to conservationists, these birds stay in Rara for around five months. “Water in Rara is warm even in the cold season. That’s why Rara Lake is the most preferred destination for these birds,” said Bhandari. He added that these birds return to their original habitats in March.
As per the data of the national park, there are around 300 species of birds found in the area. Snow Cock, Coots, Grebes, Mallard, Common Teal, Red-Crested Pochard and gulls are found in the national park area. Park officials said that they are going to conduct bird census after mid-December.
Dhan Singh Rokaya, a resident of Murma, said that this is the best time for bird watchers to visit Rara. “Rara and its vicinity are currently hosting a variety of migratory birds. This has added to the beauty of the lake area.”

        Rara developed as a habitat of Red Panda
      
Officials at the national park said that Rara is being developed as an ideal habitat for endangered red pandas. He said, “Red pandas are found in Murmatop, Chuchumare, Rumkhola and Majhghatta areas. There are plenty of bamboos in these areas making them suitable for red pandas whose primary diet consists of bamboo.” The national park is yet to conduct a census of the red pandas. 
 
 
