
# Remembrance Sunday: 10 stories of wartime sacrifice by war heroes of the world

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:08:56+00:00**

Author: **Emily Retter, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/emily-retter/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/remembrance-sunday-10-stories-wartime-20837002)

As we we prepare to mark Remembrance Sunday, there is a growing fear that our war heroes are being forgotten.
Research by biography website Story Terrace found that 10 million of us believe stories of the brave men and women who served their country will soon disappear from history.
Here, we highlight 10 stories of wartime sacrifice – from the Great War to more recent years – which should certainly never be forgotten...
Female munitions workers in the First World War were known as the Canary Girls, because they handled TNT, which turned their skin yellow.
Many reported severe health problems and even gave birth to yellow babies.
The women also risked amputation, burns and blindness from handling shells.
Fatal blasts were recorded in at least two factories.
Noor Inayat Khan was recruited to the Special Operations Executive as a radio operator.
In June 1943, she was secretly flown to France to work with the resistance.
Although many operatives around her were arrested, she chose to stay, sending intelligence back to London.
But, in October, she was betrayed by a French woman and arrested by the Gestapo. In 1944, she was transferred to Dachau concentration camp in Germany and shot on September 13.
She was posthumously awarded the George Cross in 1949.
Flight Sergeant John Hannah, a wireless operator and air gunner, was targeting German barges in Belgium when his aircraft was hit and both fuel tanks set alight.
The other gunner and the navigator bailed out, but he stayed to extinguish the flames. With bad burns to his eyes and face, he helped the pilot navigate back to base.
Hannah was only 18. He was awarded the VC.
John “Jack” Travers Cornwell was 14 when he joined the Royal Navy as the First World War broke out, and just 16 when he found himself serving on HMS Chester on May 31, 1916, during the Battle of Jutland.
The ship was caught in fierce fighting, but, although gravely injured, Jack stayed at his gun, with dead and injured comrades all around him, until the action was over.
He died two days later. His captain wrote to his mother: “His devotion to duty was an example for us all.”
His Victoria Cross was announced in September 1916.
Doctor Noel Chavasse was the only man to get the Victoria Cross and Bar in the First World War.
The Royal Army Medical Corps officer, inset, won his VC in 1916 after treating the wounded under fire at the Battle of Guillemont.
He died helping troops during the third Battle of Ypres in 1917, aged 32, and was posthumously given the Bar for his heroics a month later.
Scottish missionary Jane Haining had spent years as a matron in a Jewish orphanage in Budapest.
There were 400 girls under her care and, after the Second World War began, caring Jane refused an order to leave the country.
Even when the Nazis invaded in 1944 she stayed. Finally, she was arrested and taken to Auschwitz, where she died aged 47.
On August 30, 1940, sergeant Joan Mortimer, flight officer Elspeth Henderson and sergeant Helen Turner were on duty as teleprinter operators at RAF Biggin Hill, in Kent, when the Luftwaffe attacked.
Thirty-nine died.
Elspeth was knocked down, but refused to budge, as did Helen when her building was hit.
And Joan stayed put in the armoury – surrounded by high explosives.
SGT Bill Speakman ran out of ammunition during the Battle of Maryang-san, in the Korean War in 1951 – so he charged at the enemy.
Inspired, six others from Black Watch (Royal Highland Regiment) joined the 24-year-old lobbing rocks, mess tins and beer bottles.
Altrincham-born Bill’s heroics won him a Victoria Cross and let his pals withdraw safely. He died, aged 90, in 2018.
Johnson Beharry earned his VC for his bravery in two ambushes while he was in Iraq with the 1st Battalion Princess of Wales’s Royal Regiment.
On May 1, 2004, a grenade hit his vehicle. Shot in the head, he still saved his commanding officer and gunner. On June 11, he was hit again. Badly hurt, he reversed at speed to safety.
Lance Corporal Kylie Watson, of the Royal Army Medical Corps, was just 23 when she had to fire 15 rounds to defend her patrol from an ambush in Helmand Province, Afghanistan, in June 2010.
She then ran 100m under fire to save an Afghan soldier who had been shot, and treated another in an exposed area. She was given the Military Cross.
