
# UFO night detailing Livingston's famous encounter

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:08:16+00:00**

Author: **John-Paul Clark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-paul-clark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/ufo-night-detailing-livingstons-famous-20816052)

A leading UFO expert is coming to West Lothian this weekend to talk about a world renowned alien encounter in Livingston.
Malcolm Robinson was one of the investigators on the case in 1979 when local man Robert Taylor said he was confronted by a UFO at Dechmont Law woods in Livingston and now he is coming to Livingston Station Community Centre on November 9 from 7.30pm to 9.45pm to talk about the encounter.
On the night he will be presenting a power point lecture giving all the facts and figures, the police reports, and 11 alternative theories given by other researchers as to what they believe happened on that eventful day.
 
Malcom said: “It’s incredible to think that it’s now 40 years since Robert Taylor experienced something bizarre in Dechmont Woods, it still stands the test of time as being one of the most intriguing and unusual UFO encounters in the history of the subject. I am really looking forward to presenting my power point lecture to the people of Livingston and West Lothian so that they can see themselves, how bizarre this encounter was.
“There is no denying that something occurred that crisp November day back on November 9 1979, and we now have 11 theories by researchers each of whom believe that their theory is the correct one. Let us not forget, this was the only case in the British Isles that drew the attention and research by the police and their forensic department, no UFO case since then has ever had this attention.”
Mr Taylor said he encountered a metallic sphere hovering in a clearing in the woods. As he approached it, two smaller spheres emerged and started to drag him towards the object before he lost consciousness.
 
Police investigating the incident found unusual marks in the clearing that did not match any known vehicle and tests on his clothes showed it was likely they had been ripped by a sharp upward pull, such as a mechanical device.
Last year an information board was erected at the site of the close encounter in Dechmont Woods to let visitors know what had happened there 40 years ago.
For more information on Saturday night’s lecture visit www.facebook.com/malcolm.robinson2.
