
# Little Mix's Jade Thirwall says Simon Cowell has 'bigger t**s' than her in savage quip

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:57:43+00:00**

Author: **Verity Sulway, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/verity-sulway/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/little-mixs-jade-thirwall-says-20791001)

Jade Thirwall threw the ultimate shade at her former X Factor and record label boss Simon Cowell when she appeared on Ru Paul's Drag Race UK on Thursday night.
The Little Mix star was a guest judge on the panel, and when introducing her, Ru Paul compared her judging style to Simon Cowell.
Simon judges the X Factor , which Little Mix won in 2011, and is traditionally known as the harshest judge.
Ru Paul asked Jade: "Now you're a judge, what is going to be the biggest difference in your style of judging versus Simon Cowell's?"
Jade joked back: "Well for starters Ru, Simon has much bigger t**s. It really is true."
Fellow judges Ru, Michelle Visage and Graham Norton burst out laughing at her savage comment.
Jade looked stunning in a baby blue metallic cami dress with a white feather boa, paired with blue sky high platform stilettos and white socks.
She honoured the drag queens with heavy make up including a stunning glittery blue cut crease eye look and thick black eyeliner.
The BBC Three show saw the next drag queen eliminated following a lip synch to Little Mix's Power.
This week's theme was girl bands, and the queens created a concept, lyrics and choreography for their three-piece band.
Cheryl Hole, The Vivienne and Crystal were Filth Harmony, while Baga Chipz, Blu Hydranga and Divina De Campo were the Frock Destroyers.
The bottom two were The Vivienne and Crystal, with Vivienne being saved by Ru Paul, who gets the deciding vote.
Canadian queen Crystal became the fifth queen to sashay away.
Cheryl’s fans have been treated to a small glimpse of her upcoming look on next week's episode as she prepares to take her seat on the judging panel.
In a tiny teaser tagged onto the end of episode 5, Cheryl is seen wearing a lemon yellow suit with a golden chocker around her neck.
The Geordie beauty completed the look with a slick of nude lipstick and one simple ring on her right hand.
