
# Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa proposes new body to transform Tech Halli

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-proposes-new-body-to-transform-tech-halli/articleshow/71945416.cms)

A new body that will be set up in Bengaluru will make traffic woes a thing of the past. The Bengaluru Mobility Management Authority (BMMA) will design plans to decongest the city by encouraging mass transport services besides introducing a lane system. At a media interaction after chairing a meeting with officials, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who holds the Bengaluru Development portfolio, said that initially 12 busy corridors such as KR Puram, Old Madras Road, Whitefield, Electronics City, Hosur Road, Mysore Road and Outer Ring Road have been identified. Yediyurappa said that the authority will work on reducing not just the traffic snarls, but also work on bringing down pollution levels by encouraging mass transport system. An additional 6,000 new buses will be added to the existing fleet of the BMTC. Of these at least 50 per cent will be electric buses. All new buses will be rented by the BMTC instead of going for an outright purchase to ease maintenance cost among others. Another major decision taken at the meeting was to extend the Metro rail link to up to 119 km from the present 42 km. Yediyurappa said that Metro will be extended to up to Hoskote Cross on Whitefield Sarjpur link. By 2025, the Metro rail line will be extended by 300 km and by 2022, East, South, Whitefield, Outer Ring Road and ITPL areas will be linked to Yeshwantpur railway station, he said, expressing confidence that this would not just ease traffic but also cut pollution levels.
Increasing number of vehicles is adding to pollution. Government is thinking of slashing BMTC fares in the coming days. This will encourage people to use public transport
–BS Yediyurappa, CMThe Chief Minister said that he would hold a review meeting in December to check the progress on decisions taken at Wednesday’s meeting. BMTC fare cut The Chief Minister said that the existing fares of public transport (BMTC) is quite high and that could be one of the reasons why people prefer to use private vehicles to commute. Increasing number of vehicles in the city is adding to pollution, he said adding that the government was considering the slashing of BMTC fares in the coming days. “Cutting fares could encourage people to choose public transport,’’ he said. The government would bear the losses incurred by the BMTC. He, however, didn’t specify from when the BMTC fares will be cut. On being asked if the government was also thinking of cutting fares of Metro rail, the Chief Minister said that there was no such proposal. SWM planTo effectively manage 4,500 tonnes of Solid Waste generated every day, it was decided that more pourakarmikas and engineers would be hired. At present, only 2,500 tonnes of trash is being treated. It was also decided to hand over all lakes in the Palike limits to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The civic body will develop walk-ways and take up beautification work around the lakes.
