
# Disco Elysium review: Become a hot mess in a ridiculous adventure

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:33:10+00:00**

Author: **Laura Dale**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/reviews/2019/11/5/20948146/disco-elysium-review-pc)

Filthy and exhausted, my middle-aged character had somehow convinced himself he was a rock star in hiding.
Despite all signs to the contrary, he decided that if he went out and sang for a crowd, they would all be in awe of his talent and he would be whisked off to a well-deserved life of luxury. After going on a multipart quest to find a tape with a ballad on it, practice it alone in my room, and convince a man at the bar to let me sing it at karaoke night, I fail a roll to keep my nerve.
My reward is watching my character spend nearly three full minutes warbling that ballad out of tune. I wasn’t upset; I laughed and smiled, soaking in my failure. I was a mess, but I was owning it.
And that is Disco Elysium, an idiosyncratic top-down role-playing game on Windows PC with enough charm to make just about everything else on the market look boring.

        
          
            Polygon Recommends
          
        
         is our way of endorsing our favorite games. When we award a game the Polygon Recommends badge, it’s because we believe the title is uniquely thought-provoking, entertaining, inventive or fun — and worth fitting into your schedule. If you want to see the very best of the best for your platform(s) of choice, check out 
        
          
            Polygon Essentials
          
        
        .
      
Most video games that take inspiration from tabletop role-playing sessions tend to focus on traditional aspects of Dungeons & Dragons. Divinity: Original Sin 2, for instance, takes after combat-focused D&D iterations like the 3rd edition, sending groups of players on quests to battle tough monsters, manage limited resources, and maximize their combined abilities as a party.
Disco Elysium feels like playing a tabletop role-playing campaign with a DM who got into the game through 5th edition tabletop podcasts, and who doesn’t mind getting very silly with things. There’s no reliance on established lore and settings, but there is a much heavier focus on role-playing a consistent character through an interesting story.
Combat is minimized as much as possible, reduced to narrative choices about whether to pick a fight. The game’s core loop is more about understanding who your character is and playing them truthfully, rather than building them to win mathematically.
