
# Nico Rosberg tells Valtteri Bottas how to beat Lewis Hamilton

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:22:00+00:00**

Author: **Louis Shaw**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49434/nico-rosberg-tells-valtteri-bottas-how-to-beat-lewis-hamilton.html)


        Lewis Hamilton has won his sixth World Title. Valtteri Bottas has been unable to get anywhere near his Mercedes teammate and Nico Rosberg has given the Finn some advice. Rosberg was able to beat Hamilton in 2016 and has revealed the formula needed to take on the Brit. 
      
"I think Valtteri played some good mind games in the beginning of the year," Rosberg told Sky Sports.

        "He came in and showed that it was this Valtteri 2.0 – really, really strong – and that works.
      

        "That's the perfect way to do it, just focus on yourself, make yourself look as strong and powerful as possible, deliver with results. I think that's the best way, because if you annoy Lewis that's not the way to go either because when he's angry he becomes stronger! So it's a fine line."
      
Rosberg knows what it takes to beat Hamilton and has revealed what it takes. 

        "He needs to put the whole season together because Valtteri always has moments where he's really strong and beating Lewis but then Lewis comes back and just destroys him for many, many races.
      

        "Race pace I think has been a key problem of Valtteri's. The race pace is where he must improve. He's wearing those rear tyres out and [compared to] Lewis in most races that's really a big problem."
      
Bottas will take onboard some of Rosberg's advice and hope to challenge Hamilton next season. 
