
# Leganés suffers defeat against Eibar with a 1-2 at Estadio Municipal de Butarque

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:44:04+00:00**

Author: **SPORT.es**

Original: [SPORT](https://www.sport-english.com/en/news/laliga/leganes-suffers-defeat-against-eibar-with-a-1-2-at-estadio-municipal-de-butarque-7713100)

Leganés suffered a home defeat to Eibar at Estadio Municipal de Butarque on Sunday. Leganés faced the match with a desire to make up their league after losing 5-0 against Real Madrid while Eibar won 2-1 the last league match against Villarreal. As of today, Leganés is 20th in the LaLiga table with 5 points from 12 matches, while Eibar sits 14th with 15 points after 12 matches.
Leganés started well in the first half, thanks to a goal from Youssef En-Nesyri in the 6th minute. However, Eibar in the 17th minute found an equaliser thanks to a goal from Charles Dias, which saw the first half to a 1-1.
Eibar took the lead in the second half, with a goal from Kike in the 84th minute, finalising the game with a 1-2.
As for substitutions, both coaches used full substitutions. For Leganés Óscar, Javier Eraso and José Arnaiz came on for Guido Carrillo, Roque Mesa and Recio, while Eibar brought on Sergi Enrich, Pedro León and Edu Exposito to replace Charles Dias, Takashi Inui and Kike.
The referee booked Jonathan Silva, Martin Braithwaite, Recio, Rivera and José Arnaiz from Leganés, while for Eibar Kike and Charles Dias saw a yellow card as well.
Leganés will play against Real Sociedad at away stadium, while Eibar will face Real Madrid at home stadium.
