
# Demi Lovato says she's a 'fighter' as she opens up about mental health a year after overdose

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:11:47+00:00**

Author: **Sofia Petkar**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/demi-lovato-says-shes-fighter-20805700)

Demi Lovato has opened up about her mental health struggles, a year after taking an overdose at her Los Angeles home.
In her first major interview in over a year, the 27-year-old star described herself as a “fighter” as she focused on her personal battle of the last 12 months.
Demi was rushed to hospital in July 2018 after being found unconscious at her Hollywood Hills home following a suspected opioid overdose.
She was hospitalised for 12 days and later checked herself into a rehab for a three-month stint.
Speaking to Teen Vogue editor in chief Lindsay Peoples Wagner at the Teen Vogue Summit in LA this weekend, Demi said: “What I see in the mirror [is] someone that's overcome a lot.
"I've been through a lot and I genuinely see a fighter.
“I don't see a championship winner, but I see a fighter and someone who is going to continue to fight no matter what is thrown in their way.”
The Sorry Not Sorry singer went on: “I think it's been a very introspective year for me. I've learned a lot, been through a lot.”
Demi also revealed that she is no longer putting stress on her body, choosing instead to spend most of October in the gym.
She said: “For so many years I dealt with an eating disorder. What I wasn't ever open with myself about was, whenever I was in the gym I was doing it to an unhealthy extreme.
“I think that's what led me down a darker path - I was still engaging in these behaviours. Embracing my body as it is naturally is why I took the month of October off the gym.”
Demi has struggled with bulimia for years, fighting the eating disorder in the public eye for most of her life.
The star’s struggles began aged just nine, when she started binge-eating and purging after being heavily bullied at school.
Her teens saw Demi self harming and self medicating with alcohol, cocaine and painkillers.
The star’s struggles and appearance have also often been the subject of cruel comments and trolling online.
Speaking about the effects of social media on her emotions, Demi said: “What people don't realise is I'm an extremely sensitive person.
“When someone says something mean about me or makes a meme making fun of me, I have a good sense of humour. But when it's a very serious subject it can be hurtful.
“I'm so tired of pretending I'm not human. When you say stuff, it affects me. I try not to look, but I see it.”

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
