
# Man Utd eye Dwight McNeil transfer swoop - after releasing Burnley winger five years ago

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:16:51+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/man-utd-eye-dwight-mcneil-20817726)

Manchester United are reportedly keen on bringing Burnley's teenage winger Dwight McNeil back to Old Trafford - after releasing the youngster five years ago.
After being axed by United's youth side aged 14, McNeil went on to join the Clarets where he has developed into an integral part of Sean Dyche's first-team squad.
McNeil, 19, has played in all 11 of Burnley's Premier League matches this campaign and scored one goal. - performances that have seemingly impressed United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer.
According to The Sun , the Norwegian boss has ordered United scouts to watch the England U21s international on numerous occasions this season.
That is despite the fact he was released by the club for not being up to standards, while United's youth-team chiefs also had reservations about his ability on set-pieces.
It is understood that Burnley are in no mood to sell their prized asset, who they value at around £35million.
McNeil is a huge Red Devils fan and last month opened up on his release by United.
He told The Sun: "I was released by Man United when I was 14.
"Funnily enough, one of the reasons I got released was because my set-pieces weren’t the best.
"It was quite an upsetting time for me. I was still at school as well, I was still learning.
"I came to Burnley, got put on a six-week trial and signed just before the end of the season.
"I’m a Man United fan, despite what happened. I’ll always be a Man United fan. I just wasn’t up to their standards."
