
# 2019 BMW X4 M40i Review: 5 Things You Need To Know

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kyle Edward**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kyleedward/2019/10/31/2019-bmw-x4-m40i-review-5-things-you-need-to-know/)

The BMW X4 is a niche vehicle, appealing to those looking for the driving characteristics of a 5-Series sedan but with the ground clearance and practicality of an X3 SAV (sports activity vehicle).  If acceleration is top of mind, you can spring for the sporty M40i model which will set you up for a 0-60 time of just 4.6 seconds. When it comes to pricing for 2020, the base X4 xDrive 30i starts at $51,100, and if you want the potent engine from the M40i, get ready to write a check for $61,000. 

        Power From The M40i
      
If you're looking to spice up your daily commute, the more powerful X4 M40i comes equipped with an incredible inline 6-cylinder engine that puts out 355 hp @ 5500 rpm and 365 ft-lbs. of torque @ 1520 rpm. That's way more power than this 4,300+ pound SAV needs but it's an absolute blast to drive as more power is always better. 
I was truly surprised at just how well the X4 M40i performed on the road.  Not only does the inline 6 turbocharged engine provide a massive boost of torque, but throwing it around tight curves it actually feels light and nimble, as the suspension and steering setup makes you forget you're driving a crossover. When was the last time you took a freeway entrance ramp and had fun? If the answer is never, then perhaps the X4 M40i is your answer. 
BMW is known for creating luxury vehicles with a focus on performance and the X4 M40i doesn't let driving pleasure go by the wayside just because it's a crossover. 

        Sportback Styling 
      
If the X4 was 6 inches lower, it could comfortably be called a Sportback sedan, and the silhouette certainly doesn't look like your typical crossover.  It has coupe-like styling with a low roofline and a large rear hatch with wraparound tail lights. Personally, I love the design as it is truly something different, combining the look of a sportback sedan with the convenience and practicality of a larger vehicle.

        Fantastic Surround View Camera System
      
BMW has incorporated its incredible 3D view camera system into the X4, which allows you to view your vehicle from many different angles that are generally not available.  This makes parking a breeze, plus it's always a cool feature to show off and gives passengers the ‘wow’ factor should you choose to show off.

        Full Suite of Tech Available
      
Depending on the option packages you choose from, the X4 has active cruise control with stop & go, active lane-keeping assist with side collision avoidance, and front cross-traffic alert among several others.  All systems are easy to use and are complemented nicely with graphics on the digital instrument cluster. 

        Solid Yet Bland Interior
      
The interior itself is well constructed, the seats are very comfortable, while the infotainment and climate controls are integrated in familiar BMW fashion. However, in all of the efficiency, the interior design overall lacks a kind of excitement. Perhaps that's partly due to the boring tan interior color scheme my particular test model came in, but more could have been done to make the interior stand out on an otherwise excellent vehicle. 

        Final Thoughts
      
If you're looking for a fun-to-drive crossover with plenty of power on tap and the look of a sportback sedan, then the BMW X4 M40i is a solid choice. What it lacks in interior aesthetic, it makes up for with an incredible powertrain and unique exterior design. If you're interested in the X4, you should also give the Mercedes-Benz GLC Coupe a look. It incorporates similar styling dynamics and a gorgeous interior.
