
# ‘The Rocketeer’ Review: The Adorable Children’s Cartoon It Needs To Be

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Merrill Barr**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/merrillbarr/2019/11/04/the-rocketeer-review-the-adorable-childrens-cartoon-it-needs-to-be/)

When it comes to beloved superhero IP, few spark the kind of universal joy that The Rocketeer does. Ever since the character’s 1991 film directed by Joe Johnston (who would go on to direct Marvel’s first Captain America film) that brought the property back into the modern pop-culture landscape, many have wondered when we would get our next iteration of the famed hero. Now, the answer has come in the form of a new quarter-hour animated series with a fresh take on the idea.Created by Nicole Dubuc, The Rocketeer follows the journey of Kit Secord who, on her seventh birthday, is mysteriously sent the Rocketeer’s helmet (who has been missing for years), only to be then gifted a rocket pack allowing her to take on the mantle of the famed local hero for her hometown.
There are two lenses by which to view this new take on The Rocketeer. Lens one is that of it being an adorable animated series produced for Disney’s children’s arm. From that point of view, the series is a knock-out home-run. It’s sweet, charming, aware of itself and filled to the brim with the kind of positive messaging every program of its type should be striving for. There will be no reason for any parent to not sit their child down in front of this one come premiere time.
The second lens within which to view the show is as that of a fan of the property and, more likely, a fan of the 1991 film that’s been waiting possibly decades for a follow-up. And, on that front… the show is also a success.
Is it the kind of followup die hard fans have been waiting for? No. Would it be hyperbolic to say it’s better than what fans have been waiting for? Yes. Is it something worth a non-cynical look by those same fans? 100%. Ultimately, The Rocketeer’s message, regardless of format, is one steeped in virtue and positivity. And the new show has that in spades. To write it off simply because it’s not the follow-up fans have been clamoring for, for so long would be to betray the very thing the property stands for.
In the end, Disney Junior has a solid show on its hands with The Rocketeer. It’s certainly not Last Airbender or Ducktales lever of ambitious in terms of being able to cross the lines between child and adult audiences, but it does what it does well and with the spirit The Rocketeer deserves. And that’s what will make it a standout this fall.

        The Rocketeer premieres Friday, November 8th at 11am/10am central on Disney Channel and 5pm/4pm central on Disney Junior
      
