
# How to save £10 on a Now TV monthly Sports Pass and other instant viewing deals

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:55:33+00:00**

Author: **Linda Howard**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/family-kids/how-save-10-now-tv-20793446)

If the thought of being tied into an 18-month Sky subscription contract fills you with fear, Now TV is a handy alternative that won’t put a dent in your wallet.
The Now TV app is free to download and content is available to watch instantly on loads of devices including Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS4, PS3, Smartphones, Tablets and Smart TV's  - there’s no installation, just use your existing Wi-Fi connection.
All new customers to Now TV can take advantage of a free seven-day trial on Entertainment, Kids and Hayu passes, then just pick a pass that fits your household needs, or cancel, without incurring any costs.
If you decide you want to stick with the pay-monthly, no contract, streaming service, passes for premium content like Sky Cinema cost a reasonable £11.99 and give you access to over 1,000 movies on-demand.
And for £33.99, you'll get access to all 11 Sky Sports channels including Scottish and English Premier Leagues, Football, F1, Racing, Cricket, Golf, Sky Sports News, Mix, Action, Arena and Main Event for one month.
Discount website, CDkeys.com also has a bag of bargains on offer when it comes to Now TV passes, including a one-month Sky Sports Pass for £23.99.
These are gift cards you simply activate in the Now TV app giving you instant access to sports, movies and entertainment.
Viewing only starts once the code has been activated, so these make ideal Christmas gifts for everyone and a thoughtful present for students living away from home.
 

        
          Free Now TV 7-day trial
        
      
Sky Sports 1 Month Pass: Now TV - £33.99
Sky Sports 1 Month Pass: CDkeys.com - £23.99
Sky Sports 1 Mobile Only Pass: CDkeys.com - £6.99
Sky Sports 1 Week Pass: CDkeys.com - £9.49
Entertainment 2 Months Pass: CDkeys.com - £9.49
Movies 2 Months Pass : CDkeys.com - £13.49
Activation is easy and viewing begins instantly.
For more great deals visit CDkeys.com here .
 
