
# 'Real Housewives' star's son claims guards are lying about jailhouse slashing incident

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:32:14+00:00**

Author: **Tyler McCarthy**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/real-housewives-stars-son-claims-guards-are-lying-about-jailhouse-slashing-incident)

“Real Housewives of Orange County” star Lauri Peterson’s son, Josh Waring, claims a guard who responded to his jailhouse slashing is lying to cover up his negligence.
Josh, who is awaiting trial on charges of three counts of attempted murder from a 2016 incident, was attacked by a heavily tattooed man armed with a razor blade in a shocking jailhouse fight that was all caught on video.
According to TMZ, which obtained the criminal report from the incident, a correctional officer claims that after the attack Josh told the guards that he knew they were not behind it.

        
          'REAL HOUSEWIVES' STAR BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE EXPLAINS BIRTHDAY THREESOME TRADITION WITH HUSBAND
        
      
Josh's attorney, Joel Garson, told Fox News that the guard is simply lying to cover up the fact that the attacker should not have been out of his cell in the first place, per the jail’s protocol.
"There's no way Josh would say that. For them to put that in the report... Why would anyone say that?" Garson explained. "Clearly they knew they were going to get blamed. It's ridiculous."
Orange County, Calif. officials did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment.
In the video, Josh is headed back to his cell when his attacker comes out of nowhere and starts trying to slash him. The duo exchange blows and Waring is able to fend him off long enough for guards to respond and break it up. Page Six reports that he suffered injuries to his chest and face resulting in 20 stitches.

        
          'REAL HOUSEWIVES' STAR BRAUNWYN WINDHAM-BURKE CONFESSES TO CHEATING ON HUSBAND SEAN
        
      
