
# BMW 2 Series coupe to stick with rear-wheel drive

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:58:27+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805143/bmw-2-series-coupe-to-stick-with-rear-wheel-drive/)

- shares
It's official, the next-generation BMW 2 Series coupe will stick with the rear-wheel drive layout.
The much-rumoured decision was confirmed by Gernot Stuhl, product manager of the 2 Series range, in an interview with Autocar.
With the launch of its third generation, the 1 Series hatch shifted from a rear-wheel drive setup to the UKL front- and all-wheel drive platform used by the X1, X2 and the entire Mini range.
According to Stuhl, market research has shown 1 Series buyers didn't base their purchase on the drivetrain layout, but this was an important consideration for two-door 2 Series owners.
It won't be the first time the 2 Series name has been used on models using vastly different architectures.
Practically since its inception, the 2 Series range has been split across two vastly different platforms, with the front-wheel drive 2 Series Active Tourer and Gran Tourer placing a premium on space efficiency and passenger comfort, while the rear-wheel drive two-door 2 Series coupe and convertible had a much greater focus on driver enjoyment.
The company recently added the front- and all-wheel drive four-door 2 Series Gran Coupe to the company's lineup.
As we reported last week, BMW won't produce full-blown M variants for models based on a front-wheel drive architecture.
11
nextpreviousBMW 2 Series coupe to stick with rear-wheel drive
