
# Tanjung Piai voters should not be swayed by fake news

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:55:08+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/tanjung-piai-voters-should-not-be-swayed-fake-news)

PONTIAN (Nov 6): Tanjung Piai voters should not be swayed by fake news but instead place their confidence in Pakatan Harapan's candidate Karmaine Sardini for the Nov 16 Parliamentary by-election.
DAP Advisor Lim Kit Siang said by becoming more media literate, voters would not be easily influenced by fake news especially during the by-election campaigns.
"It depends on whether the Tanjung Piai people can be more media literate and do not allow fake news to influence the outcome (of the by-election)," he told reporters after a 'Kopitiam session' at Kampung Penerok, here tonight.
He was responding to a question on whether the spread of fake news could affect Pakatan Harapan's chance in winning the Tanjung Piai Parliamentary seat.
Earlier in his speech, the Iskandar Puteri Member of Parliament also admitted both he and the Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir Mohamad were also victims of fake news.
"We are in a time where there’s a lot of fake news. (For example) In Malay areas, (there are people) saying Dr Mahathir is DAP’s puppet and in Chinese areas, they said that Lim Kit Siang is Dr Mahathir’s puppet. Both of us are not puppets.
"(But the truth is) we are both doing our parts for the sake of the country," he added.
The Tanjung Piai Parliamentary constituency by-election was fixed on Nov 16 following the death of its incumbent Datuk Dr Md Farid Md Rafik, 42, who was representing PH, on Sept 21, due to heart complications.
Karmaine will be in a six-cornered fight against Barisan Nasional, Gerakan, Barisan Jemaah Islamiah (Berjasa) and two independent candidates.
