
# Bajrang Punia, Vinesh Phogat big medal contenders for 2020 Tokyo Olympics: Geeta Phogat

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:27:24+00:00**

Author: **Amit Kumar**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/wrestling/bajrang-punia-vinesh-phogat-big-medal-contenders-for-2020-tokyo-olympics-geeta-phogat/articleshow/71920820.cms)

NEW DELHI: Mahavir Phogat's struggle and hard work in making his daughters renowned wrestlers is no secret. Mahavir has four daughters – Geeta, Babita, Ritu and Sangeeta. All four are wrestlers.
Mahavir's eldest daughter Geeta Phogat won the gold medal in the 55 kg category at the 2010 Commonwealth Games and a World Championship bronze in 2012. Babita has two Commonwealth Games gold medals (2014 and 2018) and a World Wrestling Championship bronze medal (2012). Ritu meanwhile has become a Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) fighter.
And then there is Vinesh Phogat, Mahavir's niece, who has been brought up under his guidance. The 25-year-old is being tagged as one of the big medal favourites in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. She already has two gold medals at the Commonwealth Games (2014 and 2018). She also won a gold medal at Asian games in 2018 and a bronze in the 2019 World Championships.
Between them, the five Phogat wrestlers (Geeta, Babita, Ritu, Sangeeta and Vinesh) have two Asian Games medals, six Commonwealth Games medals, eleven Asian Championship medals and three World Championship medals. But the one medal Mahavir Phogat, who was awarded the Dronacharya award for coaching in 2016 is still waiting for is an Olympic medal.
Mahavir still sits in the backyard of his house, in Balali village in Haryana, and looks at all the medals won by his daughters. Mahavir looks at each and every medal and says ‘Olympic medal kab leke aogi tum sabb’ (When will one of you win an Olympic medal?)
"I think he (Mahavir Phogat) will be the happiest when one of the Phogat sisters wins an Olympic medal. That’s his ultimate dream right now. He is waiting for an Olympic medal. I am sure Vinesh will fulfil his dreams this time (in Tokyo)," Geeta Phogat told Timesofindia.com in an exclusive interview.
Vinesh had a great chance to win an Olympic medal at the Rio Games in 2016 but she had to pull out midway through her quarter final bout vs Sun Yanan of China due to a painful knee injury.
"Vinesh was a medal contender in the Rio Olympics, but injury ruined her chance of winning an Olympic medal. But the way she has performed in the World Championships and the form she is in, I am confident that she will win an Olympic medal for the country. Winning a medal at the World Championships and that too with an Olympic quota is a big thing. World Championships which are Olympic qualifiers are tougher than normal World Championships," the 30 year old Geeta said.
"Vinesh has won a medal and a quota and she will surely win an Olympic medal too," she said.
Among four wrestlers – Deepak Punia, Bajrang Punia, Ravi Dahiya and Vinesh – who have booked quota places in their respective categories for the Tokyo Olympics 2020, Geeta ranks Bajrang and Vinesh as the top medal contenders at the mega event next year.
"For me Bajrang (Punia) and Vinesh (Phogat) are the top medal contenders for the country. I am sure they will win medals in Tokyo. They are in top form. Ravi and Deepak have come from junior category to senior category. They are the future of Indian wrestling. They need to take it one step at a time. They also have the capability of winning Olympic medals," Geeta said.
"I just want to tell them - 'go and perform the way you have been'. They way they have won medals recently, it is incredible. They should keep their confidence up and not pressure get to them. They have been winning medals and they will surely win an Olympic medal this time," the senior woman wrestler said.
Geeta still relishes the gold medal she won at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in New Delhi. She had defeated Emily Bensted of Australia in the final.
"Those are memories which I will always be cherished. Whenever I am home and alone, I go back to those wonderful memories. I still recall the moment when I stood on the podium with my medal, watching the Indian flag go up. That medal gave me my identity. That medal (CWG 2010 gold) will always be on top of my list," a proud wrestler said.
Geeta, who is going to be a mother soon wants to hit the mat once again soon. She married fellow wrestler Pawan Kumar in 2016.
"I am getting ready for motherhood. It will also be a challenge but I am ready to take it up the way I have dealt with other challenges in the past. I go for 5 to 7 kms walk every day and do my assigned exercises. I am enjoying this phase of life. I have been into wrestling since my childhood. I have got lots of love from my country. Wrestling is everything for me," Geeta told TimesofIndia.com.
"I want to give the example of Mary Kom. She is a legend. Despite being a mother of three children, she is still competing and winning medals for our country. She is a shining example of what athletes with kids can achieve. I know I will have to give my 200 percent to make a comeback and I am sure I will. I will have to work on my body weight first of all and then wrestling techniques. It will take some time but it will happen. I would love to hit the wrestling mat once again," Geeta signed off.
