
# CEB to recruit 16 pilots

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:12:02+00:00**

Author: **Willy M. Balasa**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/ceb-recruit-16-pilots)

The qualified recuits will undergo training in Australia to become its full-fledged commercial pilots.
The program is open to Filipino college graduates who are proficient in English, with an average grade of at least 80% or its equivalent in subjects related to Math, Physics and English, and in good physical condition.
The application period for the new batch is from November 4 to 13.
There is no application fee for the program and applicants who pass the online pre-screening will proceed with the next stages of the selection process.
The CEB Cadet Pilot Program is a “study now, pay later, zero-interest” training program to become full-fledged commercial pilots with guaranteed employment with the airline. 
All expenses will initially be shouldered by Cebu Pacific and successful cadet-pilots will reimburse the cost of the program through salary deduction over a maximum of 10 years.
The program will be 52 weeks of integrated flight training, theory and education at Flight Training Adelaide (FTA) in Adelaide, Australia -- one of the best aviation schools in the region. They will also undergo an additional four weeks of training to obtain a Pilot’s License under the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines.
Cebu Air Inc., operating as Cebu Pacific, is the largest carrier in the Philippine air transportation industry, offering its low-cost services to more destinations and routes with higher flight frequency within the Philippines than any other airline. 
CEB and subsidiary Cebgo fly to 37 domestic and 27 international destinations, with over 107 routes spanning Asia, Australia, the Middle East, and USA.
Th e Cebu Pacific fleet is comprised of 2 Airbus A321NEO, an Airbus A320NEO, 33 Airbus A320, seven Airbus A321CEO, eight  Airbus A330, eight  ATR 72-500, and 13 ATR 72-600 aircraft.  
Cebu Pacific has achieved full compliance with the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) -- considered as the accreditation with the highest standards for safety in the airline industry.
