
# Man City suffer huge blow ahead of Liverpool showdown as Ederson picks up injury

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:16:06+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-city-suffer-huge-blow-20828488)

Manchester City have suffered a huge blow ahead of Sunday's crucial Premier League showdown with Liverpool at Anfield.
The reigning Premier League champions have been left sweating on the fitness of goalkeeper Ederson after he was forced off at half-time in their Champions League clash with Atalanta in Milan.
The Brazilian was replaced by Claudio Bravo at the break, with the extent of his injury unconfirmed.
He did not appear to pull up at any stage in the first half was taken off as a precaution.
But Pep Guardiola will now face an anxious wait to discover if his No.1 will be able to play in the biggest game of the Premier League season so far.
Manchester City were leading 1-0 at the break at the time of Ederson's withdrawal, courtesy of Raheem Sterling's early goal.
Gabriel Jesus missed a chance to double their advantage from the spot, firing a penalty wide before the half-time change.
Bravo then conceded just minutes after entering the fray, being beaten by a header from close-range as Atalanta pulled level.
Liverpool have had to do without their No.1, Ederson's Brazil team-mate Alisson, for periods of this season.
He pulled up in the opening game of the season against Norwich and missed several games with a calf injury.
But Adrian deputised and was largely solid before the former Roma keeper returned to the starting line-up.
Jurgen Klopp's Reds have enjoyed a stunning start to the season and have a six-point lead at the top of the table ahead of Sunday's crucial clash with City.
Sky Sports pundit Paul Merson this week warned City there will be "no way back" in the title race if they lose to Liverpool.
Merson told Sky Sports: "Liverpool will move nine points clear with a win at Anfield and, as we saw at Villa Park, they simply don't know how to lose, so I just don't where they would lose three matches to let City back in.
"It's a massive football match. It's one where Liverpool would be happy with a draw, that would leave them six points clear having played against City. When you look at the way Liverpool are playing at the moment, scoring freely, I'd find it hard to look past them for the title if they won.
"People say it's early in the season but that argument winds me up. The league starts in August, every game is of vital importance and if Liverpool move nine points clear it would probably be in City's best interest to turn their attention to winning the Champions League."
