
# Vitoria Guimaraes 1-1 Arsenal: Gunners concede late equaliser in Portugal

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:46:47+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine McKenna**

Original: [BBC Sport](https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50296577)


        Arsenal's 100% record in the Europa League this season ended as Bruno Duarte scored a 91st-minute equaliser for Vitoria Guimaraes in Portugal.
      
Shkodran Mustafi had provided the Gunners with the breakthrough with an unmarked header from a Nicolas Pepe free-kick with 10 minutes to go.
But Vitoria came to life in the closing stages and former Spurs man Marcus Edwards' cross from the right caused confusion in the Arsenal defence, allowing Duarte to equalise with a scissor-kick.
The result was Arsenal's fourth consecutive draw in all competitions in a turbulent week that saw Granit Xhaka stripped of the captaincy.
Group F leaders Arsenal will still qualify for the last 32 on Thursday if third-placed Standard Liege lose to Eintracht Frankfurt.
Arsenal manager Unai Emery made eight changes from the side that drew 1-1 with Wolves in the Premier League on Saturday, including handing the captain's armband to defender Rob Holding with former skipper Xhaka not part of the squad.
The Switzerland captain was stripped of the captaincy following an angry confrontation with home fans during the Gunners' 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace at Emirates Stadium on 27 October.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who will take over as club captain from Xhaka, and German midfielder Mesut Özil also did not travel to Portugal.
Emery opted for a change in formation with a defensive back three of Holding, Sokratis and goalscorer Mustafi, with youngsters Ainsley Maitland-Niles and Kieran Tierney adding an attacking threat as wing-backs.
But for the second time in a week the Gunners were punished late on and failed to take all three points.
In a match played in torrential rain, the first half was largely uneventful with Vitoria showing early warning signs when their midfielder Pepe hit the post with a long-range effort and Edwards forced a good save from Emiliano Martinez.
Martinez was again called into action minutes later when a Vitoria free-kick found the unmarked Edmond Tapsoba but the centre-back's flicked header was palmed away.
Vitoria keeper Douglas was not tested in the opening 45 minutes as the Gunners failed to register a shot on target despite dominating possession.
Arsenal's best chance of the first half fell to Holding after clever play down the left-hand side by 18-year-old Bukayo Saka. The skipper for the match was unchallenged as he rose to meet the cross but his header went over the bar.
In the second half the Gunners began to take control and were rewarded on 80 minutes thanks to Mustafi's header from a free-kick by Pepe, who scored twice from set-pieces against Vitoria in the final 10 minutes at Emirates Stadium two weeks ago to give his side a 3-2 win.
Another victory looked to have been sealed here but Arsenal's defensive frailties were exposed in stoppage time as Vitoria found a late surge of tempo to put the Gunners under pressure and find an equaliser, earning them their first point in the Europa League this season.
Spanish midfielder Dani Ceballos suffered a hamstring injury in the second half and has been ruled out of the trip to Leicester on Saturday by Emery.
"He has a small injury but I don't think he is going to be available this week." he said.
Arsenal travel to the King Power Stadium to face Brendan Rodgers' high-flying Leicester in the Premier League at 17:30 GMT on Saturday. The Gunners are back in Europa League action on Thursday, 28 November against Eintracht Frankfurt at Emirates Stadium.
Referee:Halis Özkahya
Home TeamVitória GuimarãesAway TeamArsenalPossessionHome35%Away65%ShotsHome15Away7Shots on TargetHome4Away1CornersHome8Away6FoulsHome13Away12
Posted at
Match ends, Vitória Guimarães 1, Arsenal 1.
Posted at 90'+6'
Second Half ends, Vitória Guimarães 1, Arsenal 1.
Posted at 90'+4'
Offside, Arsenal. Matteo Guendouzi tries a through ball, but Nicolas Pépé is caught offside.
Posted at 90'+3'
Attempt missed. Rochinha (Vitória Guimarães) right footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the right following a corner.
Posted at 90'+3'
Corner, Vitória Guimarães. Conceded by Shkodran Mustafi.
Posted at 90'+1'
Goal! Vitória Guimarães 1, Arsenal 1. Bruno Duarte (Vitória Guimarães) left footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the top left corner. Assisted by Rochinha with a headed pass.
Posted at 90'
Attempt missed. Léo Bonatini (Vitória Guimarães) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high. Assisted by Bruno Duarte.
Posted at 89'
Matteo Guendouzi (Arsenal) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Posted at 89'
Foul by Agu (Vitória Guimarães).
Posted at 87'
Offside, Vitória Guimarães. Rafa Soares tries a through ball, but Denis Poha is caught offside.
Posted at 85'
Attempt missed. Rochinha (Vitória Guimarães) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Denis Poha following a corner.
Posted at 85'
Corner, Vitória Guimarães. Conceded by Nicolas Pépé.
Posted at 84'
Corner, Vitória Guimarães. Conceded by Rob Holding.
Posted at 82'
Substitution, Vitória Guimarães. Léo Bonatini replaces Lucas Evangelista.
Posted at 82'
Attempt missed. Nicolas Pépé (Arsenal) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Kieran Tierney with a cross.
Posted at 80'
Goal! Vitória Guimarães 0, Arsenal 1. Shkodran Mustafi (Arsenal) header from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Nicolas Pépé following a set piece situation.
Posted at 79'
Gabriel Martinelli (Arsenal) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 79'
Foul by Lucas Evangelista (Vitória Guimarães).
Posted at 78'
Substitution, Arsenal. Lucas Torreira replaces Joe Willock.
Posted at 73'
Foul by Shkodran Mustafi (Arsenal).
Posted at 73'
Rochinha (Vitória Guimarães) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Posted at 72'
Attempt missed. Joe Willock (Arsenal) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Posted at 68'
Substitution, Vitória Guimarães. Rochinha replaces Davidson.
Posted at 67'
Matteo Guendouzi (Arsenal) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 67'
Foul by Lucas Evangelista (Vitória Guimarães).
Posted at 66'
Corner, Vitória Guimarães. Conceded by Sokratis.
Posted at 66'
Rob Holding (Arsenal) is shown the yellow card.
Posted at 66'
Foul by Rob Holding (Arsenal).
Posted at 66'
Lucas Evangelista (Vitória Guimarães) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Posted at 65'
Substitution, Arsenal. Alexandre Lacazette replaces Bukayo Saka.
Posted at 62'
Attempt missed. Shkodran Mustafi (Arsenal) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Nicolas Pépé with a cross following a corner.
Posted at 62'
Corner, Arsenal. Conceded by Lucas Evangelista.
Posted at 61'
Substitution, Vitória Guimarães. Denis Poha replaces Pepe.
Posted at 60'
Offside, Arsenal. Matteo Guendouzi tries a through ball, but Nicolas Pépé is caught offside.
Posted at 58'
Corner, Arsenal. Conceded by Rafa Soares.
Posted at 56'
Offside, Arsenal. Kieran Tierney tries a through ball, but Bukayo Saka is caught offside.
Posted at 54'
Substitution, Arsenal. Matteo Guendouzi replaces Dani Ceballos because of an injury.
Posted at 51'
Attempt missed. Davidson (Vitória Guimarães) right footed shot from a difficult angle and long range on the left is too high. Assisted by Marcus Edwards with a cross.
Posted at 50'
Attempt blocked. Bukayo Saka (Arsenal) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Nicolas Pépé.
Posted at 49'
Foul by Dani Ceballos (Arsenal).
Show more updatesgoal
