
# Hero Motocorp's first BSVI motorcycle teased - India launch on November 7

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:03:57+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/hero-motocorps-first-bsvi-motorcycle-teased-india-launch-on-november-7/)

In the midst of the EICMA 2019 where Hero Motorcorp showcased the Xtreme 1.R Concept alongside the Hero Xpulse Rally edition. The manufacturer has given out a teaser of its BSVI motorcycle that will debut in India on November 7, 2019 (i.e tomorrow). The first BSVI motorcycle from Hero Motocorp is a mass-market product which is likely to be the Splendor I-smart.
The BSVI Hero Splendor I-smart is expected to have a different state of tune than the outgoing motorcycle to comply with the stricter BVI emission norms. Current motorcycle on sale gets a109cc engine that produces 9.5PS at 7,500rpm and 9Nm at 5,500rpm. The BSVI state of tune is expected to have different power figures. Though the motorcycle could continue to be mated to a four-speed gearbox.
The cycle parts are expected to be the same - conventional telescopic forks in the front and dual shock absorber in the rear. The motorcycle could still continue with drum brakes on both ends with CBS, however, a disc brake variant is most likely to spawn as a premium offering.
Current Splendor I-smart retails at Rs 57,400 ex-showroom Mumbai. The BSVI compliant Splendor I-smart could ask a premium of Rs 1,500-2,000 over the pricing of the current motorcycle. The BSVI Splendor I-smart could rival the Honda Dream Yuga, TVS Radeon and the Bajaj Platina H-Gear.

        EICMA 2019: Hero Xtreme 1.R Concept motorcycle showcased
      

        EICMA 2019: Hero Xpulse 200 with Rally kit unveiled
      
