
# Sonko’s Aides Re-arrested Moments After Posting Bail

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:52:05+00:00**

Author: **Eva Nyambura**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/06/sonko-comm-officers-re-arrested/)

Four City Hall employees were on Wednesday charged with creating disturbance at Integrity Centre during Governor Mike Sonko’s interrogation.
The four; John Abok, Joseph Mwangi Karai, Kennedy Odhiambo and Richard Bosire were charged for “willfully and unlawfully resisted arrest from police constables Peter Mwangi, Timothy Nyagah, Antony Kasili, Joseph Muturi and Inspector Silas Siota.”
Appearing before Senior Principal Magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot, the four pleaded not guilty to two counts of resisting arrest and taking part in an unlawful assembly.
Read: Chaotic Entry As Police Teargas Journalists, Sonko’s Supporters At Integrity Center
They were released on a Sh100,000 cash bail each.
But according to State House digital strategist, Dennis Itumbi, the four who work in the communications department were re-arrested immediately after posting bail.
“They have been taken to KICC Police Station. What  Police and Interior are doing to Mike Sonko communication officers is completely wrong. Officers led by Richard Bosire have just been re-arrested after posting bail in court. They have been charged for allegedly creating disturbance and holding an illegal assembly,” he wrote.
Read Also: “I spent Only One Hour with Investigators at EACC” – Governor Mike Sonko
“Immediately after Mike Sonko communication officers posted bail – they were re-arrested and taken to KICC police station. Pure harassment that ODPP should intervene and stop. Bosire is a journalist who until recently worked for,” Itumbi continued.
