
# Dad hit on the neck by wayward rocket when fireworks display goes wrong

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:17:39+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/dad-hit-neck-wayward-rocket-20824302)

A father-of-two was hit on the neck by a wayward rocket during a mini fireworks display at his Birmingham home.
Neil Sjollema, from Shenley, Herts, set off a pack of fireworks - including a Roman candle, wheel, mines, aerial shot tubes, rockets, multi-shots, and fountains - in his garden over the Bonfire Night weekend.
The 39-year-old was filmed backing away before the fireworks exploded on the night of November 2, reports Birmingham Live .
But as building site manager Neil turns around to watch the display, one rocket flew directly at him and hit the right side of his neck.
Children can be heard laughing hysterically while a woman shouts in the background: "Oh my God! S***! Kids, I think you better get in! Where are the kids?"
Neil stayed near by the door as the group of ten - six children and four adults - watched the fireworks.
He told Birmingham Live: "That was pretty funny looking back, there was an initial panic but it made for a fun night!
"I had some friends and their kids over to have a mini firework display in the garden, after buying a set.
"The whole thing literally went off with a bang - and then one of the rockets hit me!
"It didn't hurt too much actually, as I think I was full of adrenaline and wanted to make sure the kids were safe.
However the blast left Neil with a mark on his neck, which he called it 'a little souvenir'.
He added: "It won't stop me trying again next year!"
Neil claimed he bought the 16 pack of Wow Fireworks from Aldi supermarket.
The description on the box says: "This 16 pack of fireworks does exactly what it says on the tin…wow! Featuring a variety of amazing effects including fountains, rockets, multi-shots and mines, these fireworks will certainly impress."
It also comes with a warning which reads: "Always read firework instructions carefully before use."
