
# What To Do If You’re Denied Medication, According To An Expert

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:41:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/what-to-do-if-youre-denied-medication-according-to-expert-19297665)

Over the weekend, national pharmacy chain CVS had to issue an apology after an employee in Indiana refused to sell cold medicine to a Purdue student with a Puerto Rican ID card. According to The New York Times, the pharmacy rejected José A. Guzmán Payano’s ID, claiming he needed to provide a valid visa as well — even though people born in Puerto Rico are U.S. citizens. While some medications do have federally enforced age restrictions to combat misuse, a legal expert tells Bustle that there are no laws in place that limit selling medication based on immigration status. Still, pharmacy refusals are not unheard of in the U.S., and people seeking birth control and emergency contraception are particularly at risk of being denied the care they need.
Mara Gandal-Powers is a senior lawyer at the National Women’s Law Center (NWLC) and the director of birth control access. The NWLC has received reports of pharmacies refusing to fill prescriptions or provide emergency contraception in at least 26 states. Gandal-Powers says that this is, in part, because of pharmacists placing their own values over their responsibility to patients. “We've heard reports from more than half the states over the years of folks being denied birth control," she says. "It's very concerning that this happens, particularly in the case of emergency contraception where the effectiveness of the medication depends on how soon you take it.”
Because states oversee pharmacy regulations, the autonomy that pharmacists have to refuse to dispense varies by location. Gandal-Powers says that when a patient is faced with a pharmacist refusing to dispense their medication, there are options available to ensure the patient receives care. “One thing you can do is file a complaint with their state board of pharmacy saying they didn't get the care that they needed from the pharmacist,” Gandal-Powers says. If a patient is denied care, the quickest solution is to find another pharmacy. Gandal-Powers says patients should call ahead so they know another pharmacy will have their medication in stock and be willing to dispense it.
