
# The best CPU deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sean Bradley**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/pc-components/best-cpu-deals-3684635/)

With so many processors to choose between, and the task of deciding whether to save some cash and put it towards a faster graphics card, it can be tough to figure out which is the right CPU for you.
Hopefully you already know whether you want to go down the AMD or Intel route, but even if you're still deciding that, the deals you'll find below may help you narrow down that choice.
If you're upgrading an existing CPU and keeping your motherboard, you'll need to know which processors will work in your current motherboard. In some cases you might have to upgrade your motherboard and other components because they just aren't compatible with modern CPUs. If that sounds like a daunting task it might make more sense to buy a whole PC.

        AMD Ryzen 7 2700XFrom: AmazonWas: £329.99Now: £174.96  (£155.03 off) View Deal
      

        Intel Core i7-9700KFrom: AmazonWas: £559.99Now: £349.99  (£210 off) View Deal
      

        AMD Ryzen 5 3600XFrom: AmazonWas: £249.99Now: £218.99  (£31 off) View Deal
      

        AMD Ryzen 5 2600From: AmazonWas: £174.99Now: £109  (£65.99 off) View Deal
      
AMD Ryzen 5 2600XFrom: AmazonWas: £174.99Now: £118.97  (£56.02 off) View Deal< >
As mentioned already, the motherboard must support the CPU you wish to use, so be careful to purchase a compatible motherboard or buy a CPU that fits your current board.
The general rule of thumb is that Intel processors are superior for single core performance, whereas AMD processors tend to be better value while also having more cores than the equivalent price Intel chip. This is a generalisation and there are exceptions to this rule, as ever. For more details, see Intel vs AMD.
Activities such as gaming tend to use up to 4 cores, so there's little point in buying a 16-core chip: you may as well go for a 4-, 6- or 8-core chip and put the money you saved into a graphics card. That's why a Ryzen 5 3600X is a very good choice at the moment.
However, if you’re content creating, video editing or doing rendering tasks, you're better off with a greater number of slower cores, over fewer, faster ones.

        From: AmazonWas: £329.99Now: £174.96  (£155.03 off) View Deal
      
The Ryzen 7 2700X is AMD's answer to the Intel 8700k. And it's substantially cheaper than Intel's offering, and also comes with a competent air cooler in the box and performs well.
This CPU features more cores and threads at a slower clock speed than the 8700k but you'll be hard pressed to noticed a difference when gaming.
If you're putting together a PC, or just focusing on gaming, the 2700X is a great choice and is much closer in performance to the 8700k than the price suggests.

        From: AmazonWas: £559.99Now: £349.99  (£210 off) View Deal
      
The i7-9700k is the second most powerful processor for Intel's 9th generation consumer range just under the i9-9900k but much more affordable.
At this price, this chip is a good deal and you're going to struggle to find it elsewhere for less.

        From: AmazonWas: £249.99Now: £218.99  (£31 off) View Deal
      
This is a great processor if you're building a gaming PC, and it comes with the Wraith Spire cooler in the box.

        From: AmazonWas: £174.99Now: £109  (£65.99 off) View Deal
      
This second-gen Ryzen chip has six cores and 12 threads. It comes with a Wraith Stealth CPU cooler and is great value at this price. 

        From: AmazonWas: £174.99Now: £118.97  (£56.02 off) View Deal
      
AMD's answer to Intel's top of the range i5, the 2600x offers incredible value, especially at this price.
This processor has 6 cores and 12 threads (the same as Intel's 8700k) with slightly slower clock-speeds at a much lower price. When you take into account the excellent air-cooler that AMD includes in the box with all its performance CPUs, this is a fantastic option.
