
# The Risk To McDonald’s Brand Would Have Been In Not Removing The CEO

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Allen Adamson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/allenadamson/2019/11/04/the-risk-to-mcdonalds-brand-would-have-been-in-not-removing-the-ceo/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Wall Street is up in arms. On Sunday, Steve Easterbrook, now former CEO of McDonald’s, one of the world’s most recognizable brands, was fired by the company’s board for “demonstrating poor judgment.” Easterbrook, who had one of the best corporate jobs in America and had been universally admired for turning the company around after years of less than stellar performance, was asked to step down after it was found that he had engaged in a consensual relationship with an employee. McDonald’s forbids managers from having romantic relationships with direct or indirect subordinates.Wall Street needs to calm down. While one might ask whether it’s risky to change corporate leadership when a company is on the upswing, my opinion is that in the case of Easterbrook and McDonald’s, it would have been more risky not to do so. 
The values that are set, and the extent to which they are made a priority by an organization’s leaders, demonstrate to all employees how much they are actually, well, valued. Burgers, fries and milkshakes aside, the underlying engine that differentiates McDonalds from its competition is the experience the customers get when they come into the restaurant.  This experience is, not surprisingly, tied to how employees are feeling. If they are feeling appreciated and engaged, if they’re feeling good about the corporate culture, if they believe in the brand, they’ll more likely work to delight the customer. They’ll be good brand ambassadors. But if they feel there is a double standard? Allowing unacceptable senior management behavior to go unaddressed will not go very far in creating a healthy and successful workplace culture, nor satisfied customers. 
Cliché though it is, the truth of the matter is that CEOs, all senior management, must “walk the walk” for a brand to be successful. Leaders must personally demonstrate the corporate values they espouse. Not doing so will have little or no positive impact on the employees on the front lines and, ergo, on the customers they serve. While true of all brand categories, this is particularly true of brands in the service category. The role of a CEO of a big service-driven organization is to inspire and guide employees in ways that ensure they deliver a phenomenal customer experience. Once a leader loses credibility, even for something as common as a relationship within the company, it’s critical that the appropriate action is taken. 
The McDonald’s board took the appropriate action. Even if it were it not the era of #MeToo, the McDonald’s board knew it would have been wrong to allow Easterbrook’s behavior to pass without action. In this incredibly transparent marketplace, they knew the risk of being publicly shamed by consumers. They understood that ignoring corporate ethics would do more harm to the brand than the risk of changing CEOs when the company was in a financially good place. My belief is that, given that McDonald’s has a deep and long-tenured management team, the transition to a new CEO should be a relatively positive one. 
Steve Easterbrook, didn’t walk the walk. In an email to employees acknowledging the violation, Easterbrook wrote, “Given the values of the company, I agree with the board that it is time to move on.” Wall Street, keep calm and move on, yourself. For the brand that recently celebrated the 40th anniversary of its Happy Meal for children, I think McDonald’s has figured out that corporate values are a critical key to risk versus reward. 
