
# Dunkin' Malaysia franchisee embarks on rebranding

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:18:44+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/dunkin-malaysia-franchisee-embarks-rebranding)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 7): Golden Donuts Sdn Bhd, the franchisee for Dunkin' in Malaysia, will allocate up to RM6 million for capital expenditure in 2020, said managing director Peter Yu.
He said the fund would be utilised for its rebranding exercise, as well as capital to open up more outlets in strategic areas, especially within the Klang Valley.
"We are opening up four new shops under the new brand by the end of this year and 10 to 15 new outlets next year.
"We will rebrand another 10 old outlets this year... It will take probably two years (for us to rebrand all old outlets in Malaysia)," he told reporters after launching the new Dunkin' logo here today.
Also present was Marc Da Silva, the managing director of Dunkin' Brands International for Southeast Asia, China and New Zealand.
The company introduced Dunkin' as its new brand identity, replacing Dunkin' Donuts to align with Dunkin' US' official rebranding in 2018.
The new branding conveys the company's commitment to energising guests around the world through great-tasting coffee and doughnuts, while embracing Dunkin's heritage by retaining its familiar pink and orange colours and iconic font introduced back in 1973.
The Suria KLCC outlet was the first in Malaysia to carry the Dunkin' brand and revamped '360 store design' concept.
Yu said Golden Donuts would allocate about RM100,000 to rebrand each old outlet in the country, adding that opening a new outlet would cost them between RM300,000 and RM400,000 each.
Today, 92 Dunkin’ outlets are operating nationwide in strategic locations, including malls, gas stations, highway rest and service areas, transportation hubs and airports.
Four new outlets are scheduled to open by year-end at Toppen Shopping Centre, Tropicana Gardens, LRT Masjid Jamek and LRT Abdullah Hukum.
In addition to expanding its in-store business, Golden Donuts would also expand the brand’s presence through food delivery, through the partnership with GrabFood and Foodpanda, as well as e-commerce platforms, he added.
