
# eBay Pre-Black Friday 2019 Deals: Best Deals On Headphones

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/07/ebay-pre-black-friday-2019-deals-best-deals-on-headphones/)

People spend a lot of money on headphones. In fact, in the U.S. alone, people spend a matter of billions of dollars on headphones and during Black Friday, headphones are some of the most popular items purchased. Hearing our music clearly is important to us. Why wouldn't it be? We don't spend countless hours curating playlists, discovering new artists or downloading our favorite music in the most detailed lossless audio that our SD cards can manage just to have to listen to it through styrofoam drugstore headphones from 1985.Of course, headphones can be used for more than listening to music. In fact, there are headphones for pretty much any audio-related activity you could image — whether it’s listening to podcasts, watching videos, or anything else. This is partially why there's been such an explosion of high-quality, affordable headphones and portable listening devices in the past few years. With so many products on the market, prices are constantly rising and falling. On one hand, the popularity of Bluetooth headphones has driven up the average cost of headphones a bit. On the other, you can get nearly pro-audio quality headphones for next-to-nothing.
Considering that headphones can run up to $5,000, if not more, it's pretty incredible you can get some comfortable, detailed, powerful headphones for less than $100. That price is even lower now though — as eBay has been rolling out some amazing pre-Black Friday deals on headphones and other portable audio products. We've picked through the listings to find the best deals on the highest-quality headphones, no matter what kind of audiophile you may be. We know you'll like the sound of that!
JBL has been developing some of the best wireless headphones of the past few years, and the JBL Everest 710GA are an excellent example of that.
For starters, these headphones offer excellent design, and in a few different colors. The best thing about them, however, has nothing to do with their design — it’s how smart they are under the hood. The headphones are optimized to work with Google Assistant, which is great news for Android users. They also sound pretty great — you’ll get a good amount of low frequencies, well-tuned mids, and plenty of clarity in the high end.
The JBl Everest Elite 710GA headphones normally come at $249.95 — but they’re currently a much more affordable $70, which is 72% off.
Noise-canceling headphones are a great way to get a little extra peace and quiet on a flight, in public transportation, or simply around the house — and the Bose QuietComfort 35 II headphones are among the best. The headphones are built for comfort, and as such, there’s a ton of padding in the ear cups and under the headband. On top of that, they sound awesome, offering Bose’s signature sound. The best thing about them, however, is that they have arguably the best noise cancelation tech out there.
The Bose QuietComfort 35 II headphones are normally available for $350, but they’re now available for $100 off, bringing them to a total of $250.
True wireless headphones are on the rise, and Sony has built a winner with the Sony WF1000X headphones. These headphones have a sleek black build, and are specifically aimed at easily staying in your ears — so you won’t have to worry about the headphones randomly falling out during the day. The headphones sound pretty good too — offering plenty of bass despite their smaller size.
While the Sony WF1000X true wireless headphones normally come at $227.20, they’re now available for $99.99, which is 64% off their normal price. And the more you buy, the cheaper the cost of each pair!
JBL offers more than just over-ear headphones — it also makes some pretty great wireless in-ear headphones. These headphones may not be true wireless, like the Sony WF1000X headphones, but they’re still super portable and seriously convenient. They even have noise cancelation built right into them, meaning that you can cut out some of that day-to-day noise that you could do without. Of course, the best thing about these headphones is how great they sound, boasting plenty of low frequencies and a decent amount of clarity in the high end. Safe to say, these are a great pair of headphones to take out and about.
Normally, the JBL Everest Elite 150NC headphones come at $199.95, but they’re currently available for $59.95 — which is $140 off.
Looking For More Pre-Black Friday Deals?
The Holiday deals are starting to come fast and furious, even in the first week of November! Whether you're looking to keep tabs on the best pre-Black Friday deals on headphones, or looking or thorough product roundups and guides, we'll be bringing you extensive Black Friday coverage, each and every day.
Sign up for a Forbes blog account today, follow the blog, or subscribe to the RSS feed to keep up with the deals! hance!
