
# Chronicle, the Google Moonshot Cybersecurity Startup That Was Supposed To Completely Change the Industry, is Imploding

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:35:00+00:00**

Author: **msmash**

Original: [tech.slashdot.org](https://tech.slashdot.org/story/19/11/07/1547224/chronicle-the-google-moonshot-cybersecurity-startup-that-was-supposed-to-completely-change-the-industry-is-imploding)

Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai and Joseph Cox, reporting for Motherboard: In early 2018, Google's parent conglomerate Alphabet announced the birth of a new "independent" startup that was supposed to revolutionize cybersecurity. Chronicle was meant to be a new type of startup. One of its products was designed to structure, organize, and help companies understand their security related data -- a "Google Photos for businesses' network security," as Forbes put it when the company announced its first product this year. The promise was radical: Chronicle would leverage machine learning and Alphabet's near-endless well of security telemetry data about known malware and internet infrastructure and use it to help security teams at companies detect intrusions that could threaten a company's network. Crucially, Chronicle would also remain independent from Google, according to Stephen Gillett, the startup's CEO."We want to 10x the speed and impact of security teams' work by making it much easier, faster and more cost-effective for them to capture and analyze security signals that have previously been too difficult and expensive to find," Gillett wrote in a blog post announcing Chronicle. "We know this mission is going to take years, but we're committed to seeing it through." At the time it was unclear what Chronicle was going to be. But industry observers were excited for what they thought was going to be a significant disruptor in an industry that is full of relatively old technologies such as antivirus and firewalls, is rife with products that offer solutions in search of a problem and outright snake oil. "Chronicle is dead," a current employee told Motherboard. "Stephen [Gillett] and Google killed it." Employees have left because of a combination of Chronicle losing its original vision, a distant CEO, a lack of clarity about Chronicle's future, and disappointment that the startup has been swallowed into Google, according to interviews with five current and former employees who were present across different stages of Chronicle's growth.
