
# Nokia Smart TV coming soon - made by Flipkart - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:16:25+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/nokia-smart-tv-coming-soon-made-by-flipkart/)

Nokia Smart TV coming soon – made by Flipkart4 (80%) 4 votes
According to a recent report, Finnish company, Nokia, will start its smart TV brand in India soon. Flipkart officially announced that it will launch a Nokia-branded smart TV in the Indian market through the “India Manufacturing Plan”.
Adarsh ​​Menon, senior vice president and head of private label, electronics and furniture business at Flipkart, said that the partnership with Nokia allows us to further provide high quality, technologically advanced products to consumers in the Indian market. Nokia is a world-renowned brand with a huge pedigree. Flipkart is happy to work with Nokia to bring the best brands and technologies together. Flipkart says it is ready to introduce the new Nokia smart TV to the 200 million consumers on its platform.
Vipul Mehrotra, VP of Nokia Brand Partnerships, said that today marks the beginning of a new chapter. This is because the company is starting a new product category. According to the report, Flipkart will fully control the manufacturing and delivery of Nokia Smart TV. The manufacturing of Nokia TV will take place in India while JBL will handle the sound.
“We are delighted that Flipkart, the leading e-commerce company in the country, will bring the first-ever Nokia branded Smart TVs to India. Today marks the start of an exciting new chapter for the Nokia brand in a new category. And where better to start than in India, where our brand has been trusted for quality, design, and reliability. Flipkart’s understanding of the needs and behaviors of Indian consumers, and the power of its reach will help it make Nokia branded Smart TVs accessible and affordable to many,” said Vipul Mehrotra, Vice President, Nokia Brand Partnerships.

        Via
      
