
# AFC U-19 Championship Qualifiers: Islamic Republic of Iran cruise to victory

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Mir Farhad Ali Khan**

Original: [PersianFootball.com](http://www.persianfootball.com/news/2019/11/06/afc-u-19-championship-qualifiers-islamic-republic-of-iran-cruise-to-victory/)

AFC – TEHRAN, Islamic Republic of Iran made a positive start to their AFC U-19 Championship Uzbekistan 2020 Group D qualifying campaign following a 3-0 victory over Kyrgyz Republic at the PAS Stadium on Wednesday.

        Islamic Republic of Iran 3-0 Kyrgyz Republic
      
Both teams tried their best to score but neither could find the opener as the score remained 0-0 at half-time.
Four-time champions IR Iran, however, laid down the marker in 53rd minute through Aria Barzegar’s header at the far post as he finished off Ahmad Reza Jalali’s delivery from the left flank.
The goal spurred Seyyed Akbar Mousavi’s side to push forward as they dominated the game and their persistence paid off in the 78th minute when Alireza Monazami rose highest to head home Iran’s second goal.
Yasin Salmani then ended the proceedings with his penalty strike in the 82nd minute to seal the points.
Iran play Nepal on Friday while Kyrgyz Republic will aim to revive their hopes against the UAE.
Tajikistan have already qualified as Group C winners while Group G kicked off on Saturday. Group A of the Qualifiers – featuring Iraq, Oman, Palestine, Kuwait and Pakistan – has been postponed with new dates to be announced in due course.
The 11 group winners and four best runners-up will join hosts Uzbekistan in the 2020 Finals.
Should Uzbekistan finish either top of Group F of the Qualifiers or are among the best four second-placed teams, the fifth best runners-up will qualify.
