
# X Factor's Dermot stutters as he almost forgets Love Islanders' names live on air

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:41:30+00:00**

Author: **Rose Hill, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rose-hill/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factors-dermot-stutters-forgets-20799575)

Dermot O'Leary was left stuttering live on X Factor tonight as he forgot the Love Islanders' names in an awkward moment.
The presenter was left stumbling after momentarily struggling to remember who Josh Denzel and Laura Anderson were.
Josh and Laura were supporting fellow Islanders Eyal Booker, Wes Nelson , Samira Mighty and Zara McDermott in the audience when Dermot came over to speak to them.
Welcoming viewers back from the ad break, Dermot began by saying: "I've managed to get a prime spot in the audience (I know the maitre'd!) right here with..."
Sitting down, he looked at Josh and Laura and appeared to struggle to remember their names.
However the names soon clicked and he said: "...Josh and Laura."
It was a night of awkwardness after Martin Bashir was left in tears as he tried to stop his performance twice.
The presenter, 56, looked lost on the stage as he forgot the lyrics to Lionel Richie's Easy.
However the judges didn't go easy on him, with Louis Walsh comparing him to a "drunken uncle at a wedding".
Judge Nicole Scherzinger hit back, saying that it was an "honour" to have him on the show.
In the middle of his performance, he shocked viewers and judges by announcing: "I've forgotten my words."
He tried to carry on but later added: "I do apologise."
Backstage, fellow star Victoria held her hands to her chest while Jenny looked on in horror.
Afterwards, Simon Cowell asked what had happened.
Martin claimed that a last minute song change was to blame for his lapse in memory.
"I'm not trying to make excuses but my song had to change," he said. "I've been anxious all evening and it went out of my mind."

        *The X Factor: Celebrity returns next Saturday on ITV
      
