
# Fremantle Expands Into Latino Market, Buys Stake In Production Company The Immigrant

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Veronica Villafañe**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/veronicavillafane/2019/10/31/fremantle-expands-into-latino-market-buys-stake-in-production-company-the-immigrant/)

Fremantle is expanding into the Latino scripted market. To do so, it has acquired a 25% stake in production company THE IMMIGRANT, owned by Camila Jiménez-Villa, the former CEO of Univision’s Story House Entertainment, and Silvana Aguirre, creator and showrunner of hit series El Chapo and ex Creative Director at Story House.The deal also lays out a plan for Fremantle to grow equity participation over the next years.
BRON Ventures, the venture arm of BRON Media Corp. that recently worked in projects such as Joker and The Addams Family, will also invest in THE IMMIGRANT, picking up a minority stake in the company.
Jiménez and Aguirre, who met while in film school at the National Film and Television School in London and worked together at Univision, co-founded THE IMMIGRANT in January to produce Hispanic and Latino-focused premium dramas focus that can appeal to international audiences.
Jiménez says the deal was worked out in just a few months.
"We were very lucky, because we had a few different options to consider for the company. Ultimately, we decided to take investment from strategic partners who could help us be bolder and more ambitious in our approach to the marketplace," she states. “Fremantle’s established brand, international footprint and strong network of creative outlets, coupled with BRON’s bold support of creators, perfectly align with our strategic vision."
With the support of Fremantle and BRON Ventures, Jiménez is determined to "transform THE IMMIGRANT into an IP and international production powerhouse.”
At the time of its launch, THE IMMIGRANT announced it had seven English-Language and Spanish-Language scripted projects in development, including a co-production with Italian production house Wildside (The Young Pope, My Brilliant Friend), helmed by Argentine multi award-winning filmmaker Lucía Puenzo (La Jauría, The German Doctor). 
"Our partnership with THE IMMIGRANT marks our first equity investment in Latin America," says Fremantle COO Andrea Scrosati. “Camila and Silvana are exactly the type of talent that Fremantle was born to be home to. Their unique multicultural approach to storytelling is very impressive, and it is an approach we believe is incredibly relevant in the times that we are living in." 
This is Fremantle’s latest acquisition for its growing drama business. Previous investments include acquiring Italian-based Wildside (My Brilliant Friend, The New Pope), majority stakes in French label Kwai (The Last Wave, Baron Noir), Israeli creative powerhouse Abot Hameiri and Australian Easy Tiger (Rake, Jack Irish).
THE IMMIGRANT is based in Los Angeles with offices in Mexico and Spain.  A new office is opening in Colombia in 2020 with further Latin America expansion planned.
