
# To Outsource Or Not To Outsource? 10 Strategies For Deciding

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Young Entrepreneur Council**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/theyec/2019/11/07/to-outsource-or-not-to-outsource-10-strategies-for-deciding/)

With technology enabling us to connect and work with talent from anywhere in the world, outsourcing has grown increasingly common. Many businesses opt to hire freelancers or contractors rather than in-house workers for a more cost-effective way of accomplishing tasks. However, this arrangement must be well-handled in order to warrant solid, usable work.To help you determine which of your business tasks should be outsourced and to ensure your outsourcing arrangements bring the best results for your business, we asked a panel of Young Entrepreneur Council members to weigh in with their thoughts. Their best answers are below.

        1. Give Each Task A Score
      
Measure every business process that you consider outsourcing against a set of questions. Is it out of your core competencies? Is it something you would dread doing? Does outsourcing save you significant time? It is something that requires significant creativity, experience and expertise, such as SEO or marketing? If your answer to the above questions is a resounding “Yes,” outsourcing is the way to go. - Rahul Varshneya, CurveBreak

        2. Consider The Cost Versus Time Spent
      
When deciding whether to outsource work, perform a cost-versus-time calculation. You may be able to do the tasks in-house, but that time will take away from your current full-time salaried staff’s accomplishing more strategy-specific goals. If you hire a contractor to complete the tasks you will be saving your salaried employees time that would be taken away from their full-time assigned tasks. - Jared Weitz, United Capital Source Inc.

        3. Determine Where You Lack Expertise
      
When deciding what work should be outsourced, you need to consider what areas you lack expertise in. Many entrepreneurs can be tempted to do everything themselves in order to maintain control and save money. But if you’re not familiar with a particular topic, such as SEO, you can actually waste time trying to master SEO and your efforts may not be effective in the end, either. - Stephanie Wells, Formidable Forms

        4. Decide On The Acceptable Margin Of Error
      
When outsourcing labor, you need to account for a larger-than-usual margin of error. This isn’t to say that you’re inevitably going to have a lot of errors—only that you need to be prepared for the possibility. If you can’t accommodate a large error margin or devote enough time and money to correct any errors, then it’s not a good idea to rely on outsourcing in that scenario. - Bryce Welker, The Big 4 Accounting Firms

        5. Have Solid Standards Before Handing It Off
      
Once you know what quality work looks like for a position or task, it’s much easier to outsource it and find someone who can meet those standards or get close enough that it’s negligible. Clearly document what things are key to hitting those standards, develop a standard operating procedure if necessary and then make sure you are asking candidates for samples of work that show they can hit the mark—you will be all set. - Justin Faerman, Conscious Lifestyle Magazine

        6. Outsource Mundane, Basic Tasks
      
You should be careful when outsourcing because if you’re not, it could seriously hamper business operations. What you really want to do is focus on the more mundane, basic tasks that need to get done in a consistent fashion and earmark those for outsourcing. - Andrew Schrage, Money Crashers Personal Finance

        7. Find Someone Who Knows You
      
In outsourcing, find someone who actually knows you and your mission and vision and who understands exactly what you want. It takes time to outsource a good employee, but you need someone who will stay for you to have good employee retention. For that to happen, you have to outsource from someone who knows you. - Daisy Jing, Banish

        8. Outsource Tasks You Don’t Yet Have A Team To Handle
      
The best way to decide what work to outsource is to perform a cost-time calculation. If you have a task that you do not have a team for yet, outsource the work to a contractor. After you’ve recruited your team, they can then take over the project long-term. One-time events are also ideal for outsourcing. Rather than tying up your team completing a one-time project, set a timeline. - Blair Thomas, eMerchantBroker

        9. Consider Your Employees
      
Your employees can help you decide what kind of work should be outsourced. Look at your current staff and think about the strengths and weaknesses of the people on your team. Use this data to put your employees where they are the most productive and outsource the work that needs a boost. - Syed Balkhi, WPBeginner

        10. Evaluate The Logistical Pros And Cons Of Outsourcing
      
While outsourcing can widen the pool of talented employees on a global scale, make sure you evaluate the pros and cons of outsourcing logistics. For example, is shipping a product transcontinentally to take advantage of lower labor costs really going to save money in the long run? Are you comfortable with the loss of control that is inherent in outsourcing? What is the impact on company culture? - Shu Saito, Godai
