
# Kenya destroys Cocaine seized when British aristocrat Jack Marrian was arrested

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:02:32+00:00**

Author: **JEMIMAH MUENI**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/kenya-destroys-cocaine-seized-when-british-aristocrat-jack-marrian-was-arrested/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya Nov 6 – Kenya has destroyed the 100 kilograms of Cocaine seized when British aristocrat Jack Marrian and a Kenyan Roy Francis Mwanthi were arrested and charged in July 2016.
      
The two were however, acquitted in January this year when the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji applied to have the case withdrawn. No reason was given, with his prosecutors only indicating that they were not ready to proceed with the matter.
ADVERTISEMENT
The cocaine, with a street value of Sh598 million, was destroyed Wednesday, at an incinerator within the Directorate of Criminal Investigations Headquarters in Nairobi, in an exercise witnessed by Justice Luka Kimaru, who had been hearing the case before the withdrawn.
Marrian, who is a large-scale sugar trader, had been living in Kenya for a long time until his arrest in July 2016, when a container with cocaine was seized at Mombasa port.
Both Marianne and his co-accused denied charges against them.
“If there is anyone who doubted our resolve to fight the trade of illicit drugs, today you have the answer,” said Fred Matiangi, Interior Ministry’s Cabinet Secretary who led security forces in the destruction exercise, “We are determined to fight the drug menace in our country decisively and conclusively.”
And he had a warning to criminals and (drug) traffickers, “If you are a drug trafficker, and you have been enjoying the protection in the past from within the security department, as the CS I want to assure you that that will never happen again because you are an enemy of our people.”
Several Kenyan officials, including police officers, judicial officers and lawyers are on the radar of the US security forces after notorious drug kingpins Ibrahim and Baktash Akasha named them during a trial that culminated to the sentencing of Ibrahim to 25 years in an American jail. Baktash is set to be sentenced on Friday. Both pleaded guilty to drug trafficking.
The Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji, who was also present, said that it is only through inter-agency cooperation and trust in government agencies that can make the war against drugs and other crimes successful.
“These drugs were intercepted due to cooperation, and the public needs to appreciate that even though we have our weaknesses we also have our strengths,” said Haji.
The DPP said that the two were ‘caught up’ in the web of international drug trafficking network.
Before the drugs were incinerated on Wednesday, officials from the Government Chemist conducted a test that confirmed that the drugs were indeed Cocaine and had to weigh them to confirm they were still intact.
Post Views: 183
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
