
# Deshaun Watson guides Houston Texans to victory over Jacksonville

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:17:05+00:00**

Author: **Graham Searles**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/nfl-houston-texans-jacksonville-jaguars-wembley-match-report)


        • Houston Texans 26-3 Jacksonville Jaguars• Watson throws for 201 yards and two touchdowns
      
The Texans arrived for a first date in London without JJ Watt. Did it matter? Not in the slightest. The defence thrived forcing more turnovers than points allowed and shutting Jacksonville down. Quarterback Deshaun Watson the beneficiary throwing for 201yd and two touchdowns in their crushing win over the Jaguars at Wembley.
Watson’s play made him look more matador than gunslinger and showed up rookie Gardner Minshew who threw two interceptions as Jacksonville, who coughed up another two fumbles, were forced into throwing the ball while Leonard Fournette was restricted to 40 yards. The AFC South now looks pretty for Houston who enter their week off with six wins and three losses and hold the tie-breaker over Jackonsville after beating them home and away. Four wins and five defeats for the Jaguars means their play-off chances, conversely, look bleak.
Houston head coach, Bill O’Brien, was pleased with how his defence and quarterback controlled Jacksonville, “They did a great job. They played disciplined and did their jobs efficiently,” O’Brien said. “The pass rush was good and everyone was disciplined in their gap control relative to the run game.
“The quarterback is the coordinator. He makes the decisions. Deshaun is playing at a really good level right now. He is making good decisions and managing the game.”
Watson made sure his team finished with three points on the opening drive after Ka’imi Fairbarn’s 52-yard field goal. The crucial play coming on first and 34 as Watson danced around a defender and hauled the ball to Duke Johnson for 21 yards. The Watson show continued with an expertly navigated eight-minute 80-yard touchdown drive.
Watson’s next trick was somehow handing the ball off to Carlos Hyde with a defender clamped around his waist to take the Texans into the redzone. A pass to tight end Darren Fells sealed 9-0 but the extra point was blocked by Cody Davis.
Minshew took over but had to settle for his side’s 63-yard march ending with a Josh Lambo field goal. A 31-yard pass to Ryquell Armstead converting a third-down to avoid a third successive punt. Minshew’s evasive action made sure the play stayed alive and Jacksonville had something at half-time.
Minshew resumed and moved his side downfield but the Jaguars eschewed their quarterback’s good work. A botched fake field goal kept the score at 9-3 and crucially leaving the game squarely on Minshew’s inexperienced shoulders. What should have been a three-point deficit was now a mountain after the Texans converted the favourable field position for three.
Jaguars head coach, Doug Marrone, was downbeat when asked about the decision, “It was disappointing. Josh didn’t feel he was going to be able to kick it. We missed that opportunity.”
Jacksonville handed it straight back. Hyde - who had a monster day with 160 yards rushing from 19 carries - sidestepped into clean air for a 48 burst. Watson hit DeAndre Hopkins who bulldozed forward arriving at the goal line and Johnson punched it in for Houston’s second touchdown.
Defenders swarmed all over Jacksonville’s receivers knowing time was ticking away and passes were inbound. Four successive pass attempts led to four failures and a turnover on downs from Minshew. Houston continued to upset him as Jahleel Addae intercepted a deep pass. Minshew stepped up again and another interception was costly, Justin Reid grabbing the errant throw and galloping to three yards out. Watson found Hopkins in the endzone to seal it with four minutes left.
Teams often struggle on their first trip to London but the Texans embarrassed the Jaguars in their seventh appearance at Wembley and poured cold water on ‘Minshew Mania’. The quarterback heads back to Florida battered, bruised and looking over his shoulder.
