
# Lando Norris: I’ve looked up Lewis Hamilton since I was very young

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Gretton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49293/-i-would-like-to-improve-on-and-be-as-good-as-lewis-hamilton-.html)


        Lando Norris is fast becoming the next flagbearer for Formula 1 in Britain. The McLaren driver says he looked up to Lewis Hamilton during his childhood and would like to improve on and be as a good as the five-time F1 world champion. 
      
During the weekend in the United States, the younger drivers have been giving their thoughts on Hamilton as he moves closer to his sixth F1 crown. Norris is no different. 
"I guess he’s a guy who I’ve always looked up to since I was young. A driver who I’ve loved to watch. I’ve been very excited to watch a lot of his races since I started watching F1 when I was six or seven years old. So, I’ve kind of not been on the journey but I’ve been able to watch a lot of the races and it gives a bit of… I wouldn’t say belief or faith but it gives a bit of confidence knowing that or hoping to go into the future and emulate him in a way," Norris is quoted by the BBC. 

        "So some things aren’t going to be exactly the same; it’s not possible to do the same as other drivers – but there are a lot of things that he’s extremely good at and I would like to improve on and be as good as him on, so yeah, a guy and a driver who’s inspired me and who I’ve looked up to since I was very young."
      
