
# International Federation of Match Poker Asian Nations Cup kicks off in Taiwan, Team Singapore among the favourites

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:08:44+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Netto**

Original: [The Online Citizen](https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2019/11/07/international-federation-of-match-poker-asian-nations-cup-kicks-off-in-taiwan-team-singapore-among-the-favourites/)

The International Federation of Match Poker (IFMP) Asian Nations Cup is currently underway at Hotel Le Midi in Taoyuan, Taiwan with 12 national teams battling to hold all the aces for their nation’s pride. Team Singapore, sponsored by BetVision, is said to be among the favourites to come out on top, judging by the talented players among its ranks.
The competition, which began on Tuesday (5 Nov) and will end on Saturday (9 Nov), is organised by the IFMP, who are the global governing body of sports poker. More than 60 nations worldwide count themselves as members of the governing body, with events organised by the IFMP involving no financial wagering whatsoever.
Classified as ‘Match Poker’, this competition lives up to its high standards where each hand truly necessitates one’s skills. To begin with, ‘Match Poker’ will see team members being split into individual players as each one will sit at a different table. Each player will receive their cards digitally with equal chips to begin.
Subsequently, identical cards will be dealt to each player at their respective tables. The teams will be awarded points at the end of every hand played, based on the combined chip-count of all team members.
After a predetermined number of hands, the competition will draw to an end, and the highest scoring team will be the victor. This very format is said to significantly magnify the skill factor of players while removing variance; hence, instituting an absolute challenging poker scene.
This year’s Asian Nations Cup features 12 nations represented by teams of four players, selected from a larger squad. The list of countries taking part is as follows: Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Japan, Israel, Malaysia, Vietnam, Kazakhstan, India, South Korea, and Taiwan.
The top-four highest scoring countries at the end of the initial phase will advance to the final which will take place from 2 December to 6 December in Lima, Peru.
According to BetVision, the main sponsor of Team Singapore, fortune not only favours the bold but also those who are gifted, and it seems that Team Singapore has notable players in its lineup to take on some of the best players in the continent.
Manila Megastack side event winner Phua Tzai Wei holds the team’s captain band, with Lisa Tan Meiling, who is a Manila Megastack Main Event winner, also part of the squad.
Joining them is Fong Xi Yuan, a much-feared and respectable professional in the Asian poker scene, along with live cash-game specialist Brandon Gerard Tan. Singapore Contact Bridge Team former gold medallist Desmond Oh together with poker veteran and vice-captain Daniel Chua also make the cut.
Not forgetting, other members are Singapore Poker Championship Series Triple Crown winner Lim Min Soon, live-poker legend Freddy Kwek, and Ivan Tan – one of Singapore’s greatest talents in the game.
