
# Google buys Fitbit for £1.6 billion as it looks to enter fitness tracker market

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:31:09+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/google-buys-fitbit-16-billion-20788728)

Google has bought Fitbit for a whopping $2.1 billion (£1.62 billion), as it looks to make its mark in the fitness tracker and smartwatch industry.
In a blog announcing the news, Rick Osterloh, Senior Vice President of Devices & Services at Google , said: “Fitbit has been a true pioneer in the industry and has created engaging products, experiences and a vibrant community of users.
“By working closely with Fitbit’s team of experts, and bringing together the best AI, software and hardware, we can help spur innovation in wearables and build products to benefit even more people around the world.”
Mr Osterloh added that Google plans to keep privacy and security at the forefront.
 
He added: “When you use our products, you’re trusting Google with your information. We understand this is a big responsibility and we work hard to protect your information, put you in control and give you transparency about your data.
“Similar to our other products, with wearables, we will be transparent about the data we collect and why. We will never sell personal information to anyone.
“Fitbit health and wellness data will not be used for Google ads. And we will give Fitbit users the choice to review, move, or delete their data.”
This isn’t Google’s first foray into the smartwatch industry.
The tech giant already has a smartwatch operating system, dubbed Wear OS, which is currently available on a range of devices, including the Fossil Sport, Armani Exchange Connected and Hugo Boss Touch.
