
# GTA 6 Game Testing ‘Begins’ As Fans Think Leak Means Good News For Release Date

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:12:53+00:00**

Author: **Julia Banim**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/gaming/gta-6-game-testing-begins-as-fans-think-leak-means-good-news-for-release-date/)


        Anticipation for GTA 6 has been kicked into overdrive following a very telling LinkedIn post.
      
Fans of the classic game series have been speeding to update their CVs after Rockstar Games Talent Acquisition Lead Kiran Kumar posted about a recruitment drive for game testers at Rockstar India.
The recruitment drive will take place in Pune on November 16 and 17, and if anyone ever told you filling your head with Grand Theft Auto-based knowledge was a waste of time, now you can prove them wrong.
Kumar included an image filled with further info within the post, complete with some gaming artwork in the distinctive style of Grand Theft Auto.

        The post read:
      
The gaming giant is looking to hire ‘freshers with knowledge and experience of Rockstar’s games up to two years’.
This call for game testers has sparked enthusiastic discussion as to whether the game in question is the long-awaited GTA 6. If this is indeed the case, then that would, of course, suggest GTA 6 is now at a playable stage, with a potential release date on the horizon.
The topic quickly hit Reddit, with eager gamers analysing the post for further hints.

        One Redditor reasoned:
      

        Another mused:
      
Of course – despite the very telling artwork – there is as of yet no confirmation this recruitment drive is for GTA 6. Indeed, it could well be for the widely rumoured Bully 2.
However, this has given fans fresh hope of a 2020 or 2021 release date.

        Julia Banim
      
Jules studied English Literature with Creative Writing at Lancaster University before earning her masters in International Relations at Leiden University in The Netherlands (Hoi!). She then trained as a journalist through News Associates in Manchester. Jules has previously worked as a mental health blogger, copywriter and freelancer for various publications.
