
# The Company That Is Helping Amazon Communities And Rainforests

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Natalie Parletta**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/natalieparletta/2019/11/07/the-company-that-is-helping-amazon-communities-and-rainforests/)

Corporate drop-out Alan Howard had a life-changing experience when he found himself as one of a handful of westerners to have ever lived with the Kichwa people, an indigenous tribe of hunter-gatherers in the Ecuadorian Amazon who have also won other hearts with their warmth and friendliness.The experience, in 2017, led him back to the corporate world with a mission, to create a company that could generate enough profits to make a real difference to the life and land of these people.
It started as a month-long adventure and evolved into much more as Howard witnessed and fell in love with the beauty of the jungle, the hunter-gatherer way of life and the culture. He also discovered how fragile it was, learning how the tribe faced constant threats from illegal loggers and oil companies, and was moved by the chief’s efforts to protect the land and preserve age-old traditions.
It struck him that no-one was helping and he felt compelled to act. So, Howard returned to California and tried to raise money through Rotary and Lion’s organizations, but with only a few hundred dollars here and there, he decided the predicament needed more urgency.
That’s when he started up digital marketing company, Sacha Agency, that for two years now has invested 15% of its profits to help protect the forest. Currently, they provide support to 400 people from around 70 families.
Their first project focused on educating the communities about recycling and keeping the river clean, where they throw trash from goods provided by NGOs, contaminating the fish and their drinking water. To support this, they provide income to families on three-monthly rotations to clean the tributary within 100 metres above and below their homes. This basic income helps the families buy medicine and supplies such as rice, beans and tilapia.
Another project involves educating them about the importance of the forest and their culture to prevent them from selling their land. To give some context, the indigenous tribe has the right to sell the land if the community makes a majority vote – and oil or logging companies are constantly using manipulative tactics to coerce them.
Chief Freddy says in a video they have been warding AGIP Oil off for 30 years, “but this company and others are trying to condition our community to need its support in exchange for getting oil or wood from our territory, so our people are starting to depend on them”.
Sacha is countering this with two major initiatives to start with: providing important items such as notebooks and school supplies – a carrot that AGIP oil was using as a bribe – and a new radio communications tower to call for help in the case of a medical emergency like jaguar attack or snake bites to give reassurance to mothers.
For the third project, Sacha worked with elders to set up a forest patrol and has been paying them to protect their hundreds of acres of land from illegal loggers. In May this year, the patrol caught a large group of illegal loggers, and the community detained them until Ecuadorian officials arrived and arrested them – a major victory.
Sacha is about to embark on phase two of this forest regeneration project. This will focus on the forest’s fauna, which have dwindled since the government built a school for the community 15 years ago. Because the tribe is no longer nomadic, this is impacting the animals as well as the forest. Whereas they could walk 20 minutes into the forest to hunt just five years ago, now they need to travel four hours downriver in a dugout canoe to find fresh hunting grounds, and the journey keeps getting longer.
The project involves capturing and breeding the forest’s natural fauna; in 18 months their goal is that the community can stop hunting for three months during spring to allow the babies to grow and restore the animal populations.
As a company, Howard says having a broader purpose changes the motivation and the types of employees that join the team, and he hopes other businesses will follow suit. “It is in our DNA as humans to want to know that the work we are doing every day is helping a greater mission. Our mission at Sacha is to be the for-profit company that has the largest impact in protecting the Amazon rainforest, and the moment we win this title we want other companies vying for it and taking it.”
His employees embrace this wholeheartedly.
“Financial motivation has its limits,” says Leroy Scott, “a purpose though is limitless. Knowing that our work directly impacts over 400 people living in the Amazon rainforest gives me the motivation to go beyond what is seen as possible for myself, our clients and the Kichwa tribe.”
Another employee, Danna Cheverra, says it’s incredible to know that her work is helping the planet. She has met the Kichwa people and says seeing how their work is impacting their lives is the most powerful experience she has ever had. “I don’t think I can go back to a regular job,” she adds. “Sacha has ruined me.”
Clients are also pleased to be contributing to a larger purpose, like Michael Paul from Strangford Management.
“To know that our marketing partner has the moral character to be on a mission like they are is incredibly inspiring; they often update us on the impact that even our investment is making in the Amazon. The energy, tenacity and expertise their team brings each and every time we talk with them shows that they are motivated by something greater and it is most shown in the world class marketing work they are doing for us.”
Meanwhile, Howard regularly visits the Kichwa people and communicates with Chief Freddy via e-mail every couple of months when the chief journeys out of the Amazon to the closest town with power and internet.
He and a Sacha employee also attended the landmark court case won by the Waorani people against the Ecuadorian government to protect their land from oil drilling, and the agency hopes to extend their support to this tribe in 2020 as they grow.
Sacha is part of a movement towards companies for good, and Howard hopes to inspire more to invest at least 5% of their profits to help protect the planet.
“We reinvest 15% of our profits to show other companies that 5% is more than feasible,” he says, urging them not to “underestimate the power and importance of having a bigger mission.”
