
# Woman Taught Her Dog To Speak Through A Soundboard, And It Now Knows 29 Words

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mikelle Leow**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407223/Woman-Taught-Her-Dog-To-Speak-Through-A-Soundboard-And-It-Now-Knows-29-Words/)

It’s a common wish of dog parents to be able to understand what their pups are saying. That dream isn’t so farfetched anymore, as a speech-language pathologist has trained her pet to communicate with her via a soundboard. San Diego-based Christina Hunger, who teaches speech to one- and two-year-old kids, has coached her 18-month-old Catahoula/Blue Heeler mix Stella to express her thoughts and feelings, letting her human know if she would like to go out, eat, and so on by tapping a string of buttons on a customized soundboard.
Hunger tracks Stella’s progress in a blog and Instagram account called Hunger For Words, and reveals that the clever pooch, who began learning to “talk” at eight weeks, already knows at least 29 words. She can even create phrases or sentences of up to five words. Aware that she can finally communicate with her human, the pupper regularly utilizes the device to communicate her feelings. Hunger says Stella’s body language tallies with her phrases; once, she had misinterpreted the pooch’s whining at the door to mean she had wanted to go outside. Stella then began pressing the buttons representing, “Want,” “Jake,” and “Come,” and waited until Hunger’s fiancé Jake returned home. When the fiancé came home minutes later, Stella hit the “Happy” button and rolled over, inviting Jake to rub her belly. Hunger tells PEOPLE that she is in “constant amazement and shock,” as Stella “says something cooler” each day. The speech expert estimates that Stella has the vocabulary of a two-year-old child. Advertisement Advertisement The pup’s current favorite words are “walk,” which she uses repeatedly, as well as “beach.” In time, Hunger hopes to teach other dogs to communicate through a soundboard. “Just imagine how much deeper the bond [between dogs and humans] will be,” she explains.
[via PEOPLE, videos via Hunger For Words, cover image via Shutterstock]
