
# Barra distillery's customers left in lurch as limited edition gin fails to arrive

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Jane Barrie, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jane-barrie/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/island-distillerys-customers-threaten-call-20795422)

Customers of an island distillery threatened to call in police after orders for limited edition gin failed to arrive.
But even a local bobby couldn’t get hold of the £37 bottle of Barra Atlantic Gin she ordered despite paying up front.
Sandra Grant, a police constable on nearby Benbecula, said: “I’m fed up chasing Isle of Barra Distillers and the humour is not lost on me.
“It’s ironic that even I can’t get my delivery given what I do for a living.
“But it seems I’m not alone. There are other people complaining online.
“They all appear, like me, to have placed orders and had trouble receiving them.”
The firm, based in Castlebay, on the island’s south coast, advertised pre-sale bottles of the spirit made with 17 botanicals, including local carrageen seaweed, for £37 plus £4 postage in May.
It had just been granted official approval, making it the first fully licensed gin distiller on Barra.
Sandra, 46, added: “This was the first time the gin was to be distilled, bottled and labelled on the island.
“I thought it would make a nice gift for someone while supporting a local business at the same time.” Sandra, of Balivanich, Benbecula, received confirmation of her order after she placed it on July 11.
But it failed to arrive and she spent weeks phoning and emailing.
She said: “My mum ordered too and hers turned up, so I thought it was a glitch at first.
“But I only ever received one response – an email on September 26. The firm apologised, said it was busy and short-staffed but would get the order to me within a few days.
“The phone rings out, they don’t respond to emails and it’s a four-hour round trip to get there. I’d have to spend 40 minutes on the ferry each way. I just want what I ordered or my money back.”
Other customers on consumer website Trust Pilot branded the firm’s customer service “terrible” and rated it with zero stars, although some are now reporting deliveries have arrived after waiting months.
One female customer said: “If I could give no stars, I would and I’m seriously thinking of involving Highlands and Islands police.
“Now a bit of honesty from the company would be nice.”
She later notes that her gin turned up: “A bottle has arrived so maybe now two stars, which hopefully will get up to a four or five-star review in the future as the gin is very good.”
The company, run by islander Michael Morrison, was a finalist in the Scottish Gin Awards 2019, shortlisted in the best London dry gin of the year category.
After being contacted by the Sunday Mail, the distillery offered Sandra a full refund.
In an email to her, Morrison said: “I’m sorry for the late reply.
"We would like to discuss what we are willing to do to make up for the poor service.”
He told us there was a “slight issue” with Sandra’s order and said, with regard to other complaints: “There were issues but we have gone a long way to putting things right.”
