
# Local startup raises $1.6 million funding from investors

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:22:12+00:00**

Author: **Tech Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2094651/local-startup-raises-1-6-million-funding-from-investors/)

KARACHI: Pakistan’s own messaging platform, TelloTalk has raised $1.6 million from a combination of international and local investors.
International investors include a UAE-based venture as well as the USA and Hong Kong-based businesses along with local institutional investors including TPL eVentures and i2i Ventures. The money that the startup has raised will go towards more in-depth research, marketing and advertising and further product development to ensure that it faces minimum criticism.
“Pakistanis have a choice in messaging apps – TelloTalk is the single best local messaging app, customised for Pakistanis, fully committed to Pakistan, with all our technology and management infrastructure present in Pakistan,” said Shahbaz Jamote, Co-Founder and CEO of TelloTalk.
He further added that the app is available to corporations of all sizes to improve productivity and internal communication along with customer interactions via various multimedia chat channels. TelloTalk also complies with all the local regulations such as the digital payments ensuring that the user experience is not compromised at all.
“At TelloTalk, we aspire to digitize the economy of Pakistan and unleash the incredible creativity and talent of our nation’s youth,” added Arshad Ashraf, Chairman of TelloTalk.
TelloTalk is a well-defined app that is locally customised much like WeChat in China and KakaoTalk in Korea. Launched in 2017, the app has empowered businesses also to rid themselves of just the traditional means of communication and hop on the bandwagon of more modernised ways of communication internally as well as with their customers.
The app is available to download on the iOS App Store as well as the PlayStore on Android.
