
# Inside horrific dog meat farm where 5,000 family pets butchered

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:40:43+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/inside-horrific-dog-meat-farm-20787746)

An animal welfare charity has shut down what appeared to be a dog meat farm that butchered family pets.
Pictures show how dogs would be held in holding pens before being butchered with some even turned into bar snacks.
The Cambodian slaughterhouse was processing between 2,000 and 5,000 dogs a year, according to animal welfare charity Four Paws.
Dr Katherine Polak, a veterinarian at Four Paws, first heard about the slaughterhouse from local restaurants who used it as a supplier.
The first thing she saw at the rural property in the Takeo province, just outside of Phnom Penh, was a dying tree with caged dogs underneath.
 
She told Yahoo News : “The tree was apparently in full bloom about a year ago, but it’s just been dying from all the blood and urine and faeces.
“There’s a smell, there’s a stench to it, it’s really heartbreaking.”
“The farmer would hit them over the head and then put their back legs into the cage,” she said.
“So the other dogs would watching this, waiting for their turn.
 
“And then he stabs them in the throat, allows them to bleed out a bit and then he puts them in a pot of boiling water.”
Selling dogs for meat often attracts a social stigma in south east Asia and Dr Polak has heard stories of the farmers being beaten to death by villagers in neighbouring Vietnam.
The farmer at the Takeo province facility contacted Four Paws, pleading them to help him get out of the trade.
On October 27, Four Paws and Animal Rescue Cambodia entered the property and seized the surviving 10 dogs.
These included two animals the farmer had kept since they were puppies as good luck charms.
The damaged canines had been confined to cages.
Working to shut down the farm, Four Paws purchased a rice paddy for the farmer as an alternative income source and he has now pledged never to enter the dog meat trade again.
While the trade is largely conducted underground and numbers hard to estimate, Dr Polak believes annual dog slaughter numbers amount to five million in Vietnam, three million in Cambodia and one million in Indonesia.
