
# Top DJ set to spin the decks for 24 hours at Ayr's ASK as part of charity night

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:52:32+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stuart-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/ayrshire/top-dj-set-spin-decks-20834466)

A top DJ is to spin the decks for 24 hours as part of a marathon fundraiser.
Dean Burnett will tackle the unique challenge by pumping out the tunes at Ayr’s Arthur Street Kitchen.
The care worker is resident disc spinner at the popular nightspot.
And he’s planning to stand in the booth for a full day without a break as part of his wacky gig.
Dean, a care assistant at Carrick House, said: “I came up with an idea of raising money for the residents’ fund.
“I wanted to do something that was a bit different so I got my thinking cap on.
“I saw that Armin Van Buuren once did a 14 hour DJ set and it gave me the idea for this.
“It’s not going to be easy – I imagine it will be pretty lonely at points but I’ll push through!”
Dean will kick off his set at noon on Saturday, November 24 with an easy listening set for diners.
His night time tunes will then kick in for a packed dance floor.
But when clubbers head home for their kip, Dean will be left playing to an empty venue – with just the cleaner for company.
He laughed: “It will be just me and her, so it’s going to be a strange atmosphere.
“We’re going to stream the set live on Facebook, though, so people can check up on my progress.”
Dean, 27, added: “It’s all for a great cause and I’m looking forward to it.”
ASK general manager, Jon Neil, said: “We’re delighted to help Dean in any way we can for this great cause and it promises to be a fantastic challenge.”
