
# Ruto urges Kibra voters to shun violence as Odinga calls for supporters to protect stronghold  

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:54:23+00:00**

Author: **LABAN WANAMBISI**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/ruto-urges-kibra-voters-to-shun-violence-as-odinga-calls-for-supporters-to-protect-stronghold/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 7 – Deputy President William Ruto Thursday urged Kibra residents to uphold peace as they voted to elect a National Assembly representative, the ODM party leader Raila Odinga urging voters in the constituency he formerly represented to protect his stronghold.
      
Ruto who is also the Jubilee Party Deputy Leader, which is fielding MacDonald Mariga maintained confidence the ruling will clinch the seat accusing competitors in ODM of being behind the chaos witnessed in several polling stations.
ADVERTISEMENT
“The people of Kibra have turned up in numbers to vote for their MP, resisting the violence narrative by our opponents. Peaceful voting is going on in many polling centres and Security officers are on alert to deal with acts of lawlessness. Change is imminent!” the Deputy President said in a message on his Twitter handle.
Speaking after he cast his ballot at Old Kibera Primary School Odinga urged his fellow constituents to protect their vote in the ongoing by-election occasioned by the death of former MP Ken Okoth in July due to Cancer.
“I urge those who have not voted to come out from their residences and vote today. We are in our bedroom and I want to urge our people to protect our bedroom against infiltration by strangers and outsiders,” said the ODM Party Leader who is also African Union (AU) as the High Representative for Infrastructure Development.
Scenes of low voter turnout characterized at some centres in the by-election Thursday afternoon.
The story was slightly different in the morning as queues continued to build up across polling stations until mid-morning.
National Assembly Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali and Amani National Congress Musalia Mudavadi observed that the low voter turnout is because of the election being conducted on a working day.
“The turn-up is a bit low and of course this is normal with by-elections. We also expect that the workers who come from this area may have gone to seek permission from their employers so that they can come back and vote,” Washiali told Capital FM News.
“We want to make a plea to employers who have employees from this area to allow them to leave work early so that they can and be part of this historical moment,” Mudavadi stated.
Nairobi County Elections Manager Joseph Mele said the turnout is expected to be high given the competitive nature of the campaign.
“When competition is stiff, the motivation from the electorate goes high and so the turnout is seen in an increased number,” he said.
Polls opened at 6am and are due to close at 5pm.
Counting of votes in polling stations across the constituency’s five wards is expected to begin soon after with the final declaration to be announced on Friday.
Sarang’ombe Ward, has the highest number of registered voters at 30,754, followed by Woodley/Kenyatta Golf Course (28,066), Makina (25,695), Laini Saba (17,455) and finally Lindi has 16,688.
There are 24 candidates battling for the 118,658 votes.
Post Views: 167
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
