
# Is Hull City v West Brom on TV? Channel details, injury latest and match odds

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Wakefield**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/hull-city-v-west-brom-17212308)

West Bromwich Albion are gearing up for their next match in the Sky Bet Championship as they take on Hull City at the KCOM Stadium this weekend.
The Baggies go into the fixture in fine form and currently lie at the top of the league table following their win over Stoke City on Monday night.
Hull have had a mixed start to life under new manager Grant McCann, but have picked up wins against Derby County, Nottingham Forest and Fulham in recent matches.
Ahead of this weekend’s match, we’ve put together all of the key things that you need to know.
 
The game is due to kick off at 3pm at the KCOM Stadium on Saturday, November 9.
The game is not being broadcast on live television, but you will be able to follow our coverage of the match right here at Birmingham Live.
You will also be able to watch highlights of the game on Quest on Saturday evening at 10.30pm.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
Kieran Gibbs broke his toe in training over the last international break, but it is not a major problem.
He missed the Stoke game but could be on the bench against Hull.
Gareth Barry missed the end of last season after undergoing surgery on his knee. His contract was up this past summer, but he has finally penned a new contract and can play for West Bromwich Albion after a financial issue with Everton was resolved.
Albion and Everton had been locked in talks for several weeks over the final payment owed to the Merseyside club to extend Barry’s Hawthorns tenure into a third season. But a breakthrough in the impasse has enabled Barry, 38, to sign a new deal with the Baggies that will run until the end of the season.
In terms of suspensions, Nathan Ferguson served the first of a three-match ban against Stoke - and he will also sit out the Hull and Sheffield Wednesday games.
His return will be pencilled in for Bristol City at The Hawthorns at the end of next month.
 
Hull - WWWLL
West Brom - WDDWW
Hull – 2/1
Draw – 13/5
West Brom – 23/20
*Odds courtesy of Sky Bet and are subject to change.
