
# Starz ads during Disney+ signups is a small price to pay for new films

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:00:47+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/youll-see-starz-ads-when-logging-disney-because-thats-how-it-got-out-exclusivity-deal?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Trying to get every title Disney's ever made onto one service is like herding cats, except the cats have all been going to different homes for food and belly rubs. The reason that the films and tv shows that Disney+ will have on Day One — now a week away — is not complete is because Disney's legal teams have been trying to find ways to revise or shorten the deals they have while waiting for others to simply time out.
The license agreement with arguably the biggest impact on Disney+'s library was Disney's agreements with Starz, one of which included the rights to Star Wars: The Force Awakens and other recent Star Wars and Marvel titles. That agreement has apparently been modified in order to allow Disney to stream these films on Disney+ — something we knew had happened once The Force Awakens and Rogue One were announced for Day One availability — but due to a confirmed report from The Verge, we now know how Starz agreed to give up its exclusivity.
Disney+ was not planned to have ads and will not have ads during playback, but apparently on certain platforms you will see banner ads for Starz when you sign up or log in to Disney+'s website or Android apps. It's unclear if those ads will appear on the Android TV app or just the main Android app you'd install on phones, tablets, or Chromebooks, but at least the experience should be ad-free once you're logged in.
One week to go!
At long last, you're going to be able to find just about all of Disney's shows and films in one place, though some are still bound by previous streaming and licensing agreements. Disney jumped through hoops to loosen its agreement with Starz, but in exchange for a single banner ad, we'll be able to stream every Star Wars film except The Last Skywalker.

        Unlimited Means Limited AT&T will pay $60 million after hiding data throttling The FTC has settled its case with AT&T for $60 million. AT&T was accused of failing to inform customers of its data throttling practice while marketing plans as "unlimited."
      

        It's Back This new Android Auto app fixes a problem Google created for newer phones Android Auto for phone screens has finally been released for users who lost access to Android Auto after the Android 10 update.
      

        A decent mid-ranger The Nokia 6.2 arrives in the U.S. with Android One for $249 The Nokia 6.2 with triple rear cameras and stock Android is now available in the U.S. for $249.
      

        Disney+ in 4K Which 4K TV should you get to enjoy your new Disney+ subscription? Disney+ is here and we have found some of the best 4K TVs that you should consider if you want to get the best playback quality with your new Disney+ subscription.
      
