
# McDonald's sacks British boss Steve Easterbrook after his relationship with employee

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:10:53+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Gilpin, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/andrew-gilpin/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/mcdonalds-sacks-british-boss-steve-20805941)

McDonald's British Chief Executive Steve Easterbrook has been sacked after having a relationship with one of his employees.
The fast food giant's boards determined he violated company policy, they revealed on Sunday.
Easterbrook, 52, had led McDonald's since 2015, but had "demonstrated poor judgment".
He has relinquished his seat on the company's board as well.
"This was a mistake," Easterbrook said of the relationship in an email to employees.
"Given the values of the company, I agree with the board that it is time for me to move on."
Chris Kempczinski, 51, most recently president of McDonald's USA, was named the company's new CEO, effective immediately.
 
In his own message to employees, Kempczinski thanked Easterbrook for recruiting him to McDonald's and said he expected the company to continue its 'customer-focused growth plan.'
Chicago-based McDonald's, one of the world's most recognizable brands, recently celebrated the 40th anniversary of its Happy Meal for children and is known for its family-friendly reputation.
The company did not provide further details on the circumstances surrounding Easterbrook's departure.
 
McDonald's shares roughly doubled during Easterbrook's tenure.
But the chain in October missed Wall Street profit estimates for the first time in two years as it spent money remodeling U.S. restaurants and speeding up service to address declining customer visits.
Rival fast-food chains in the United States have challenged McDonald's dominance with value meals and new menu items, including plant-based burgers and meat substitutes launched by rivals including  Burger King and KFC.
 
McDonald's is seen late in reintroducing chicken sandwiches and rival Wendys Co has started serving breakfast.
Easterbrook turned around McDonald's operations in the UK, where he was born, by refocusing on burgers and burnishing the brand with an ad campaign that sought to debunk unflattering rumors about its food.
A cricket enthusiast who earned a reputation among former UK colleagues for being funny, fair and a lover of simplicity, Easterbrook was also the rare McDonald's CEO with experience running other restaurant chains.
His departure was among the most high profile in a corporate America blighted by such scandals.
Scrutiny of executives and their treatment of employees has intensified amid the MeToo social media movement, which highlighted instances of sexual harassment in the workplace.
In June 2018, Intel Corp CEO Brian Krzanich resigned after an investigation found he had a consensual relationship with an employee that breached company policy.
