
# IND vs BAN | With experience playing against pink ball gets easier, feels Cheteshwar Pujara

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:32:01+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/ind-vs-ban-with-experience-playing-against-pink-ball-gets-easier-feels-cheteshwar-pujara?utm_medium=rss)


        Indian Test specialist Cheteshwar Pujara reckons that playing against the pink ball will become easier once batsmen gain experience. India will play it’s first-ever day-night Test match against Bangladesh in the second of the two-match series at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata, from November 22.
      
Pujara had his first encounter with the pink ball back in 2016 during Duleep Trophy final against India Red. Featuring for India Blue, he hit a classy unbeaten knock of 256 — throughout playing on his natural game to dominate the pink ball. Three years later, he is excited to be a part of India’s first-ever experience of day-night Test cricket. 
“When we played under the lights for the first time (in 2016), the only issue we had was to get used to the pink ball. At the start of the session, it wasn’t a big issue because there was sunshine. But as the game progressed, when the lights were on, it was challenging because not many players had that experience. Once you gain experience, it gets easier. So, you need a little more time to get used to that,” Pujara told Sportstar.
Pujara further noted that the early onset of winter might have an effect on the ball, but conceded that day-night cricket will help the longest format of the game grow. 
“When you play at that time of the year (November 22), it would be the start of winter, so the weather will definitely play a role. Since its winter, the ball might swing a bit. It's too early to comment but it will definitely be exciting. The crowd will come in to watch the game. Since it’s a day-night affair, people will have more time and they will not have to sit under the sun. This will help Test cricket grow. It’s worth a try for sure, and once we play this game, we will be able to give better feedback about our experiences,” he believes. 
In the meanwhile, as the Men in Blue entertain their neighbours in a three-match T20I series, Pujara is trying to squeeze in a session or two to practice with the pink ball.
“Whenever there is time and opportunity, I will try and practice with pink ball. Apart from that, the strategy and preparation doesn’t change much as it’s still the same format. One or two sessions with it may help. I will try doing it even before the first Test match begins. Obviously, after the first Test, we will have two days of practice in Kolkata, so that should be of help,” Pujara feels.
Unlike most other Test-playing nations who have already had a taste of the experience, both India and Bangladesh are new to the conditions. But according to India’s No.3, that won’t stop the hosts from putting the foot down and carrying on their dominance in the ICC Test Championship thus far.
“As a team, we would like to stick to our potential and if we can stick to the way we have performed in the Test format, then we don’t need to worry much about the opposition. You do want to restrict the opposition, but you also want to focus on your goals. We have been doing well and we need to stick to those things, rather than worrying about whether the opposition is strong and what are their strengths and weaknesses. As a team, we have had certain strategies and we have been doing well, so our only target will be to stick to our natural game and focus on our performances,” Pujara added.
