
# These Photos Make Molecular Structures Look Like Psychedelic Art

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kristin Houser**

Original: [Futurism](https://futurism.com/the-byte/photos-molecular-structures-psychedelic-art)

Electron microscopes are great at producing high-resolution images of a material’s atomic structure — if the material is hard, that is. Unfortunately, the devices’ electron beams can destroy softer materials, so scientists typically rely on X-rays, which can’t reach atomic resolution, to image those.
But scientists at the Department of Energy’s Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have published a pair of studies in the journals Nature Communications and Nature Materials showing how a technique called 4D-STEM allowed them to use electron microscopy to image soft materials without destroying them.
And the images resulting from their research are downright gorgeous.
According to a newly published press release, the Nature Communications study focused on the use of 4D-STEM to image bulk metallic glass, which has an unpredictable molecular structure. This allowed the researchers to identify atomic-scale weak points in the material that could ultimately cause it to fracture under stress.
For the Nature Materials study, meanwhile, the researchers used the 4D-STEM technique to image the molecular ordering in a semiconductor before and after the introduction of a processing additive — research that, according to the press release, could impact the field of solar energy.
“[I]n these studies, we’ve shown that when 4D-STEM is deployed with our high-speed detectors, customizable algorithms, and powerful electron microscopes, the technique can help scientists map out atomic or molecular regions in any material — even beam-sensitive, soft materials — that weren’t possible to see with previous techniques,” lead researcher Andrew Minor said in the press release.
READ MORE: World-Leading Microscopes Take Candid Snapshots of Atoms in Their ‘Neighborhoods’ [Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory]
More on electron microscopy: Tiny New CRISPR Protein Could Make Human Gene-Hacking Less Risky
