
# How one man paid cash for health care and why Starbucks’ holiday coffee slogan is stirring up controversy

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:44:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Keshner**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/how-one-man-paid-cash-for-health-care-and-why-starbucks-holiday-coffee-slogan-is-stirring-up-controversy-2019-11-07?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

Happy Thursday MarketWatchers. Don’t miss these top stories:
‘How do we provide something to keep her out of homeless shelters without having it thrown away for drugs?’
Research suggests fruity flavors are a prime driver in getting young people to try vaping.
U.K.-based Collins Dictionary has declared “climate strike” as its word of the year, after noticing a hundredfold increase in its use in 2019, the most of any word (or, yes, words) on its list.
‘She didn’t outright tell me that she no longer wants me as a maid of honor.’
‘Tis the season to rip Starbucks for its holiday cups. The Seattle coffee giant has brewed up plenty of controversy year over year in trying to make its festive cups more inclusive for those who don’t celebrate Christmas. And 2019 is no exception.
‘It was like a five-ton elephant being lifted off your shoulders.’
The company announced new efforts to address unauthorized parties after a shooting tragedy in California.
‘She disagreed, given that no cash is changing hands. Who is right?’
New study reveals fresh insights into the benefits of giving.
Four years ago, Harry Sit paid a dermatologist $360 using insurance. This time, he paid cash for the same exam and it was $161.
Beijing’s announcement Thursday that the U.S. and China have mutually agreed to roll back tariffs as part of a “phase one” trade accord lifted financial markets, adding to optimism that the 18-month trade war is finally beginning to wind down.
The best thing (perhaps, at this point, the only thing) President Trump has in his favor heading into 2020 is that there will probably not be a recession.
U.S. consumer borrowing rose in September at the slowest rate in fifteen months, the Federal Reserve said Thursday.
President Donald Trump on Thursday denied a report he wanted Attorney General William Barr to publicly declare he didn’t break any laws during a call with Ukraine’s president.
The stock market is in full flight Thursday, with all three main U.S. benchmarks poised to end at their highest levels ever, but those glorious gains come amid an uneasy gap in what consumers and C-suiters think about future of the U.S. economy.
it’s time for wealthy people to pay more taxes. Here’s a good place to start.
The Procure Space ETF is the first exchange-traded fund focused on space-related activities.
