
# Jadon Sancho 'leads Chelsea's five-man wishlist' if transfer ban is lifted

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:13:19+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jadon-sancho-leads-chelseas-five-20813113)

Frank Lampard is reportedly set to be handed around £150million to spend if Chelsea's transfer ban is lifted, with Jadon Sancho thought to be among the club's top targets.
The Blues' appeal will be heard by Court of Arbitration for Sport on November 20, having already serving half of a two-window ban for breaching rules relating to the signing of underage players.
If CAS decide to reduce their punishment, the club will be free to start signing players at the start for the January transfer window
Although the ban has allowed many of the Blues' younger players to enjoy great success, Lampard has admitted he will try to make additions if he is given the green light.
According to The Telegraph , the Blues boss will have a pot of £150m thanks to the funds gained from last season's Champions League qualification, and the summer sales of the likes of Eden Hazard and David Luiz.
 
With the futures of Pedro, Olivier Giroud and Willian also unclear beyond the end of the current campaign, it is understood that the club want to add wingers and strikers as a priority.
And the publication reports that Borussia Dortmund and England star Sancho is one of their top targets alongside Crystal Palace wide-man Wilfried Zaha and Lyon striker Moussa Dembele.
Since making the move to Germany in 2017, 19-year-old Sancho has established himself as one of the leading talents in Europe and is attracting interest from many of the continent's top sides.
The Telegraph also claims that Chelsea are looking to strengthen their defensive options and have shown interest in Leicester City left-back Ben Chilwell, as well as Bournemouth centre-back Nathan Ake.
 
Although it is expected that Chilwell will not be allowed to leave Brendan Rodgers' side in January, the Blues can bring former defender Ake back to Stamford Bridge for £40million.
Speaking ahead of Chelsea's Champions League clash with Ajax, Lampard said: "Chelsea will always look to improve in transfer windows if we can - and if the players we might look at are better or we feel are adding to the squad.
“I’m very interested in the appeal of course because it’s obviously going to affect potentially what we can do in January or not.
“It is a little bit down my list because the matter in hand is Ajax tonight. I’m not going too far ahead with what happens.
“Of course some players have come in and shown with their opportunities they’ve been given that they can do roles and play well. We are getting results at the moment.
“But at the minute I’m very happy with what I’ve got so I suppose that’s why the fans are as well.”
