
# Motorola Razr 2019 Depicted In More Seemingly Official Images

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:24:19+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/motorola-razr-2019-depicted-in-more-seemingly-official-images.html)

The Motorola Razr 2019 flood gates have opened. In the last 24 hours or so, quite a few images of the Motorola Razr 2019 itself appeared. Basically all those images arrived from Evan Blass, and they show off the company's first foldable smartphone in detail.
We've already shared three of those images, but quite a few more popped up in the meantime. In the gallery down below, you'll be able to find eight images in total.
Considering how accurate Evan Blass usually is, this is almost certainly a final design of the phone. That is even more obvious considering that the device is expected to arrive before the end of the year, more on that later.
Advertisement
As you can see, this phone is extremely reminiscent of the original Motorola Razr. The original Motorola Razr V3 was announced back in 2004, and it was your regular cellphone.
It did offer extremely eye-catching design, and managed to become extremely popular. That phone was actually amongst the most popular devices Motorola ever released.
That being said, Motorola is keeping that design intact, to a degree. The large chin is present on the bottom. When the phone is folded, it will fold above that chin, and the fit will be seamless.
Advertisement
A secondary display will be included on the outside, when the phone is folded, and will be larger than on the original Motorola Razr. On the inside, the Motorola Razr 2019 will feature a large display, with a display notch at the top.
That inner display will look rather odd. Its top and bottom sides will not be straight, the top one will have an up-facing curvature, while the opposite will be the case for the bottom. That's actually quite interesting. The display itself, however, will be flat.
This phone will include a rather tall display aspect ratio, it seems. Based on these images, the device will include a single camera, and that camera will be used as both a front-facing and a rear-facing unit.
Advertisement
You will also notice a rather interesting hinge on this smartphone. It is quite noticeable, but it doesn't seem to be distracting based on these images.
All in all, the Motorola Razr 2019 looks really nice in these images. This design was expected, though, as it's extremely similar to the design patent Motorola submitted a while back.
The phone is expected to arrive by the end of this year. That information was shared by CNET in September, and received from someone "familiar with the situation". Motorola did not confirm anything just yet, though.
Advertisement
