
# Mayo Gaeltacht parish to benefit from major funding

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:29:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Connaught Telegraph](https://www.con-telegraph.ie/news/roundup/articles/2019/11/06/4181950-mayo-gaeltacht-parish-to-benefit-from-major-funding/)

THE Minister for Rural and Community Development, Michael Ringm has today announced 26 projects which will be allocated funding of €62 million under the second call for funding under the €1 billion Rural Regeneration and Development Fund, a key component of Project Ireland 2040.
They include the provision of a major tourism hub in Eachléim on the Erris Peninsula in the north Mayo Gaeltacht which will act as an orientation point for visitors to learn about the cultural and natural heritage attractions in the area, including Blacksod Lighthouse, and to provide tourism incubation space and support the development of craft enterprises.
Funding for Ballintubber Abbey and the Clew Bay Greenway project are also being funded.
The elected Mayto projects are:
Minister Ring said: “I am delighted to announce the successful projects from the second call for funding under the Rural Regeneration and Development Fund.
“The fund was established under Project Ireland 2040 to deliver the targeted investment necessary to ensure that rural Ireland continues to grow and prosper and deliver on the balanced regional growth that is in everyone’s interests.
“Following this announcement, the Rural Regeneration and Development Fund will have delivered investment totalling €148 million for 110 projects across Ireland, worth a total of €212 million.
“This funding announced under the first call to the Fund is already transforming rural communities and after today, every county in the country will be benefitting from the investment provided by the Fund.
“I believe that it is vital that we continue to build resilience in rural communities and make our towns and villages vibrant places for families to live.
"The projects that this fund supports are targeting areas where they can have the greatest economic and social impact and will help support communities in facing the uncertainty still posed by Brexit.”
