
# Sundowns’ R8m Striker To Lead List Of 5 Potential Exits?

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/mamelodi-sundowns/emiliano-tade-to-lead-list-of-potential-exits-at-mamelodi-sundowns/666787)

Mamelodi Sundowns are expected to reassess their squad in January next year, with five players already being linked with moves away from the club.
As reported in last week’s edition of Soccer Laduma, Emiliano Tade’s future is currently up in the air at the Chloorkop-based club after his knee injury led to him falling down the pecking order.

        
          Read more: Pitso: I Was Benni’s Biggest Fan!
        
      
Sundowns secured the signing of Tade from AmaZulu FC in January this year in a deal which was believed to be worth R8 million.
However, it seems that the expensive striker could be heading out the exit door at the Brazilians, with the club set to face a foreign quota conundrum when Ricardo Nascimento returns, as they already have Mauricio Affonso, Gaston Sirino, Jose Ali Meza, Bangaly Soumahoro and Tade registered for the 2019/20 season.
Siya sources have indicated that Tade could be on the list of potentials exits at the club come January next year, should his situation remain unchanged.
However, it is more than just Tade who is currently being linked with a January exit or transfer.
Reyaad Pieterse is believed to still be on the radar of Kaizer Chiefs, with the Soweto side eager to bolster their goalkeeping department. However, no advances have been made as yet, although there could be an opportunity to do so come January. 
Aubrey Ngoma has made zero domestic appearances for Sundowns and after previous failed moves to the likes of Maritzburg United and Cape Town City – getting game-time elsewhere could still be on the cards in the January transfer window.
Lucky Mohomi is still on the radar of SuperSport United and Siya sources have indicated that Matsatsantsa want to once again try Sundowns’ hand in January. 
Lastly, although a move for Lebohang Maboe in January could be unlikely, the playmaker has attracted interest from both Belgium and Turkey.

        
          Who of these players do you think will make the move away from Sundowns in January? Let us know in the comment section below. 
        
      
