
# Gary Neville sends warning to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer over Man Utd form

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:39:53+00:00**

Author: **Hassan Rashed**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/gary-neville-sends-warning-ole-20792920)

Gary Neville has warned Ole Gunnar Solskjaer he is still "one game away" from being under serious scrutiny at Manchester United , despite a recent improvement in form.
Solskjaer had been the subjected to speculation over his future at Old Trafford after United's worst ever start to a Premier League campaign, but a string of good results has since reduced some of the pressure on the Norwegian.
After the disappointment of a 1-0 defeat at struggling Newcastle going into the international break, the Red Devils are unbeaten in their last four games in all competitions.
They followed up a 1-1 draw against Premier League leaders Liverpool with wins against Partizan Belgrade and Norwich, in addition to a Carabao Cup victory over Chelsea on Wednesday.
However, former United defender Neville admitted he feared the worst ahead of the meeting with Jurgen Klopp's side, who were yet to drop a point entering the game.
“As a United fan, I went into the Liverpool game panicking,” he told talkSPORT before the cup win over Chelsea.
“I was thinking this could be a bad day, this could get moody in the stadium, Liverpool are a great team and they could go 3-0 up – but United played really well.
“Ole had been questioned tactically but he got it right on the day and that was the start of this little run they’re on, beating Partizan and then the Norwich win was big."
United entered the Liverpool clash just two points clear of the relegation zone but could now move up to fifth with a win over Bournemouth on Saturday.
And although he believes Solskjaer's squad has benefited from the confidence they gained from the point against the league leaders, Neville insists that the United boss can't afford any poor results.
“I don’t think they would have been capable of going to Norwich and winning pre the international break," he continued. "That Liverpool game gave them a little bit of confidence to think: ‘We’re better than this, let’s be positive and beat Norwich’.
“So there has been a mini revival, but I don’t think Ole will be sat comfortable in his chair. I think he realises he is one game away from the clouds circling again.
“Ole is looking up the table rather than look down, so it’s an important game.”
