
# Dublin Murders ending explained - Will there be a season 2?

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:12:51+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/dublin-murders-ending-explained-season-20824011)


        Spoiler warning for Dublin Murders
      
The gripping crime drama Dublin Murders came to a heart-stopping conclusion with many twists and turns.
The series focused on detectives Rob Reilly (Killian Scott) and Cassie Maddox ( Sarah Greene ) as they investigated the cases of who killed Katy Devlin and the mysterious case of Lexie Madison.
Dublin Murders is based on the award-winning detective novel series Dublin Murder Squad by Tana French, with the episodes covering the first two books: In the Woods and The Likeness.
But what did the detectives uncover in the final episode?
And will there be a Dublin Murders season 2?
The finale of Dublin Murders saw Detective Rob Reilly and Detective Cassie Maddox forced to go their separate ways, as Rob was fired from the police and Cassie had to cope with the fact that she killed Dan while she was undercover, never really got to the bottom of who Lexie Mangan was, and had to get an abortion in England - the father of her pregnancy left unknown.
Despite that downbeat ending, the pair did solver the case of who murdered Katy Devlin.
Even though it has appeared that archaeologist Damien was solely responsible for Katy's death, the finale saw it revealed that while he was physically responsible, he was manipulated into killing Katy by her sister, Rosalind.
Katy's sister had framed her as a monster, claiming that Katy laughed while Rosalind was sexually assaulted by their father, and Rosalind convinced Damien to kill her sister.
Rosalind confessed her actions were to get revenge on her parents, mostly due to the fact that she knew they had never really wanted to have her.
However, this wasn't the only twist as Rosalind had deduced Rob's true identity: he was the missing teen Adam from the woodlands scene in 1985.
Due to her exposing Rob's true identity to Superintendent O'Kelly (Conleth Hill) in the interview room, Rob was fired from his position.
However, scenes with Katy's dad Jonathan revealed that in 1985, Sandra had been raped by Cathal, who chased the kids with Shane and Jonathan. They never found Peter or Jamie but did find Adam screaming and holding a tree with blood on his ripped clothes. Jonathan confesses this full to the police.
Rob/Adam then set about leaving town - but what happened to Peter and Jamie remains a mystery, as does what really happened to Adam in the woods.
The final scene of the series is the most cryptic, however, as undercover detective Frank Mackey (Tom Vaughan-Lawlor) met Rob at the entrance to the woods and where the motorway was being constructed.
Frank showed Rob a stone with the drawing of Erl-King, who Frank calls 'The baby stealer'.
Erl-King refers to a poem by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which has a child killed by the figure known as the Elf King.
Could this be what was responsible?
However,  the final sequence showed Frank seeing a wolf in the distance - the same wolf that haunts Adam/Rob's dreams.
The ambiguity of the ending will leave lots of questions.
Was a wolf responsible for what happened to the children in the woods?
Is Frank connected to what happened in 1985?
A second season of Dublin Murders has yet to be confirmed.
Showrunner Sarah Phelps told Radio Times : “Please God yeah! And season three, I'd like cover the whole thing, cover the whole period of that time for Ireland."
She added: "I hope we get to do more because I know what happens in the final scene."
So do we!
The next book in the Dublin Murders series follows Frank Mackey - which makes sense given the ending of this series!

        Dublin Murders is streaming on the BBC iPlayer now.
      

        
          What did you think of the end of Dublin Murders? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
