
# 'Saturday Night Live' star Michael Che accused of sexist and ageist comments on 'Weekend Update'

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:11:49+00:00**

Author: **Tyler McCarthy**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/saturday-night-live-michael-che-accused-sexist-ageist-comments)

“Saturday Night Live” star Michael Che is sparking backlash for the second week in a row over controversial comments he made on the show’s “Weekend Update” segment.
Che, who co-hosts “Weekend Update” with Colin Jost, saw a slew of upset viewers take to Twitter to accuse him of sexist and ageist comments after making a joke about a 67-year-old woman giving birth to a child.
Che told the story and delivered an off-color punchline noting that she “set a record for most friction,” which elicited a smattering of laughs and groans from the crowd.

        
          SNL MOCKS WARREN'S $52T 'MEDICARE-FOR-ALL': 'WHEN THE NUMBERS ARE THIS BIG THEY’RE JUST PRETEND!'
        
      
“See, you guys don’t realize this but that joke took me like four hours to write,” he said. “I had much better punchlines but the fellas at NBC standards said they were all too dirty.”
Che continued: “Like, at first I was gonna say, ‘Well I hope that kid likes his milk chalky!’ But they said, ‘You can’t say that on TV.’ It was my second favorite punchline! My first favorite being, ‘She can breastfeed just by standing over the crib.’ That’s a good one, right? Nope, NBC said, ‘Too gross,’ which is ridiculous. Too gross would be like if I said, ‘Doctors described the birth as pulling a penny out of a wad of gum.”
“Now that would be too gross,” he concluded. “Even I wouldn’t tell that joke on TV.”
