
# Internet Reacts To Game Freak Laying Off 478 Pokemon

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:00:57+00:00**

Author: **Alex Walker**

Original: [Kotaku Australia](https://www.kotaku.com.au/2019/11/internet-reacts-to-game-freak-laying-off-478-pokemon/)

The Pokemon world is currently in shock after fans learned that the franchise has undergone its largest round of layoffs in its history, leaving 478 Pokemon unemployed.
Fears about the cuts have been coming for some time, following the news that not all Pokemon would be importable into Sword & Shield. The confirmation that Sword & Shield would only have a regional Pokédex and not a national one, meaning that Pokemon not included in the Galar Region could not be imported from another game, only solidified concerns.
In other words: hundreds of Pokemon, happily servicing Game Freak and millions of friends, fans and families around the world, have suddenly found themselves out of work. In total, 478 Pokemon were informed of their fates at the Game Freak offices in Tokyo, with some of the pocket monsters having featured in every regional Pokédex, thereby contributing to the franchise from as far back as February 27, 1996.
The affable Psyduck, pictured above, is one of three base Pokemon alongside Magnemite and Zubat who have been in every regional Pokedex. All three were informed by management some time ago that they were surplus to requirements for Sword & Shield's Galar region, although news of their dismissal only came to light recently.
The full list was compiled after users got their hands on a copy of Sword & Shield early, allowing fans to work their way backwards. A thread on ResetERA has compiled a list of all Pokemon, outlining which ones have retained a position in Sword & Shield and those who failed to make the cut:
Another coloured form that might be easier to parse was also posted on Twitter, using a red/green/blue schema to indicate which Pokemon would feature in Galar, and those left behind.
