
# Ingredient of the Week: The perfect baked potato

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dailyrecord.co.uk**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/food-drink/ingredient-week-perfect-baked-potato-20764787)

This weekend will see lots of people heading to Bonfire nights, so it’s the ideal time for friends and family to get together and heat up afterwards with a delicious roasting hot baked potato for tea.
It doesn’t really matter what you fill them with – anything goes really, but for me it is all about the potato itself.
So how do you cook the perfect jacket potato. Should you prick it first? Wrap it in foil? Start in the microwave first to give it a head start?
Well I like to jab the potato a few times with a fork or sharp knife, roll in olive oil and coat in a bit of sea salt.
Some people like to spear their potatoes with a metal skewer, as this makes them cook more quickly. Now there is science behind this technique as the metal rapidly conducts heat to the inside of the potato, speeding up the cooking process.
However, you decide to cook them, the most important (and delicious) thing to do is to eat the skin.
The skin not only tastes amazing but is so good for you as it can contain around half of the potato’s fibre and is jam packed with vitamins and nutrients.
All that’s left to do is to fill with your ingredient of choice; baked beans, cheese and tuna are still the traditional classic fillings.
Or why not do as I like to do, and fill with left over chilli, curries and casseroles, the fluffy potatoes soak up all the juices and flavours.
And if you do have any cooked baked potatoes left over - scoop out the fluffy inside as they make the most delicious mash, as there is less moisture absorbed.
But don’t waste the skin – grate some cheese on the top and melt. Delicious.

        Ingredients:
      
1 pack of Scotty Brand Bakers
Rapeseed or olive oil
Salt and pepper
Butter

        Method:
      
Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.
Wash the potatoes well, dry them and prick several times with a fork or sharp knife Pour some olive oil into a bowl and roll the potatoes in it until the oil covers all areas of the skin, then sprinkle over some sea salt.
The olive oil should mean the salt sticks to the skin. Coarse salt is best for this. Place directly on the shelf in the oven and bake for 1¼-1½ hours, depending on the size of the potato.
When cooked, the potato should have a deliciously crispy skin with a gorgeous golden colour.
Carefully slice open and place a knob of butter in the middle, which will melt instantly, and the potato can be eaten straight away or served with a filling of your choice.
