
# VIDEO | Angry Babar Azam lashes out at Asif Ali for throwing away wicket after declining second run

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:55:05+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/video-angry-babar-azam-lashes-out-at-asif-ali-for-throwing-away-wicket-after-declining-second-run?utm_medium=rss)


        Pakistan are not known for their athleticism on the field and their carelessness just adds to it, which is enough the enrage a settled batsman. Playing against Australia, T20I captain Babar Azam pulled off a Virat Kohli like reaction as Asif Ali denied a second run and got out on the very next ball.
      
It seems like almost an inadvertent tribute to Virat Kohli on the Indian captain’s birthday as Babar Azam lashed out at Asif Ali, who was the batsman at the other end. Azam was batting on 42 off 30 when he skipped down to hit a straight drive of Ashton Agar’s over, when Ali, batting on 4(4), denied a clear second run, making an eager Azam walk back to the non-striker’s end. The captain was definitely unhappy with Ali’s denial of the second run. But that was not it.
After disappointing his captain, the 28-year-old threw away his wicket in the next delivery when the team was in sheer need of a good partnership. As Pakistan lost their fourth wicket with the score just 70 in the 12th over, it left captain Azam absolutely frustrated and angry. 
As Agar bowled one that pitched outside off, Ali tried to slog sweep and mistimed the shot and the ball skied towards the long-on safely into Pat Cummins’ hands. Azam, who should’ve been on strike, took no time in lashing out at Ali, who had just given away his wicket mostly due to a couple back to back bad judgements.
