
# Mushfiqur Rahim stars as Bangladesh pull off spectacular 7-wicket win against India in Delhi

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:55:56+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/sports/mushfiqur-rahim-stars-as-bangladesh-pull-off-spectacular-7-wicket-win-against-india-in-delhi/271283/)

Bangladesh on Sunday defeated India in the opening T20 International match by seven wickets with Mushfiqur Rahim leading the successful chase for his side.
 
Mushfiqur Rahim (60 not out) was the top-scorer for his side by scoring a brilliant fifty under pressure. He hit Khaleel Ahmed for four consecutive boundaries in the 19th over when Bangladesh needed 22 runs in two overs to win the match. In the process, Rahim also completed his fifty with a four. Mahmudullah remained unbeaten at 15 as he hit the winning shot for a six.
Batting first, India made 148-6 with Shikhar Dhawan being the top scorer. Dhawan, who was playing on his home ground, made 41 before running himself out, leaving India at 95-4. Rishabh Pant and Shreyas Iyer made 27 and 22 respectively, while KL Rahul and Krunal Pandya made 15 each. Washington Sundar made a quickfire 14 off five balls including two huge sixes. This helped India take their total to 148.
As for Bangladesh, Shafiul Islam and Mustafizur Rahman picked up two wickets each, while Afif Hossain took the wicket of Shivam Dube by taking a spectacular catch off his own bowling.
Earlier, Indian skipper Rohit Sharma had expressed his apprehension about the wicket saying that the pitch was slow and he would have chosen to field first had he won the toss. He was proven right as Bangladesh restricted India to less than seven runs an over for the most part of the match as the hosts continued to lose wickets at regular intervals.
Bangladesh and India had met on eight occasions in two matches before with India winning all the encounters. Tonight’s victory is the first-ever win by Bangladesh in a T20 International competition against India.
Reacting to India’s loss, skipper Rohit Sharma said, “Not to take any credit away from Bangladesh. Those crucial breakthroughs when we were batting. It was a defendable total but we made mistakes on the field. I think it was a mistake from our side on the reviews but these are the learnings. We posted a decent target but we were lacking on the field. I think we always wanted Chahal to get back into this format but we know how crucial he is to this team moving forward and he showed how important he can be in middle overs even when batsmen are set. He is so confident.”
Mahmudullah said, “I think it was all based on how we start but the bowlers did a great job, everyone chipped in. I think captaincy was made easy because of the guys performing well. I think Mushy deserves the credit, especially he and Soumya. Naim too batted well on debut, giving us the start we needed.”
Mushfiqur Rahim was adjudged Man Of The Match for his superb batting display.
Bangladesh were without their two key players Shakib al Hasan and Tamim Iqbal. While Shakib was banned for two years for corruption charges, Tamim had pulled out of the series because of his wife’s pregnancy.
 
 
