
# You can currently get £500 off dreamy cruise holidays to Asia and Australia

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:06:49+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/cruises/you-can-currently-500-dreamy-20822567)

Singapore, Ho Chi Minh City, Bangkok and Bali are all seriously dreamy destinations for the bucket list, but exploring them all isn't always a budget-friendly feat.
However, thanks to Mirror Cruise's latest deal, you could bag a cruise holiday package that includes all of them - with prices from £73pp a night. 
That's because the cruise deals website has slashed prices on a 21-night Asian Allure & Perth for Christmas package.
This includes your return flights, two FREE nights in Singapore, a 14-night sailing on board Princess Cruises' Sun Princess, and four FREE nights in Perth including Christmas.
The holiday usually costs £2,049pp but you can currently bag it from £1,549pp on Mirror Cruise - that's a saving of £500pp. (Plus, as it's a 21-night package the price works out at £73pp a night).
The 14-night cruise on board Sun Princess offers up some seriously glamorous ports of call.
Departing from Singapore, you'll get to explore the likes of Phu my (for Ho Chi Minh City), Sihanoukville, Laem Chabang port (less than two hours from Bangkok), Ko Samui, Bali and Fremantle before arriving in Perth for the Christmas period.
Meanwhile the Sun Princess itself makes for quite a luxury holiday setting.
 
We're talking speciality dining venues (as well as plenty of bars and lounges), a large theatre offering up spectacular stage shows, adults-only haven The Sanctuary, luxury spa treatments, Discovery at SEA enrichment classes, loads of boutique shopping, spa treatments and even Movies Under the Star events.
The price is based on two people sharing an inside cabin but if you do want to splash out you can upgrade to an Oceanview cabin for an extra £299pp.
It's worth noting that the discounted prices are based on a 6th December 2019 departure with return flights from London Heathrow, but don't be disheartened if you can't quite make the offer work for you.
The good news is that Mirror Cruise has heaps more Christmas cruise deals including some shorter itineraries and Christmas market destinations.
You can also check out more on our Cruise Holidays page which we regularly update with the latest cruise news and deals we think you'll love.
