
# New on the block: Privé launches across from Tiong Bahru Market

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:16:02+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/food-drink/new-on-the-block-prive-perches-in-singapores-hip-tiong-bahru/)

A Privé outlet launched yesterday in the prominent corner space across from always-busy Tiong Bahru Market that was vacated by Tiong Bahru Social Club a few months ago.
This location serves an extensive list of food all day long, from coffee to small bites to breakfast to heavy dinners and happy-hour drinks. 

        
          Food buzz: Tiong Bahru Club relocating to Little India, Prive potentially taking over former space 
        
      
The highlight dishes (recommended by the Privé representative who chatted with Coconuts Singapore online yesterday) include Middle Eastern Avocado Toast (poached eggs or cumin-lime roasted chickpeas, served with pomegranate, pumpkin seed dukkah, chilli flakes, chipotle-cumin hummus for S$18), Truffled Mushroom Swiss Burger (mushrooms, vegan swiss cheese sauce, caramelised onions, vegan truffle mayonnaise, vegan bun for S$21) and Tracy’s Favourite Salad (baby spinach, kale, broccoli, avocado, hummus, quinoa, goji berries, pomegranate, jalapeño, garlic chips, edamame, pumpkin and chilli-chimichurri dressing for S$18). 
Now you know what you should order!
At the branch, vegetarians and vegans can rejoice with the wide selection of plant-based dishes. So, don’t be shy to ask if your favorite items can be made vegan or vegetarian.
Months ago, Privé Group set its sights on Tiong Bahru for its ninth branch. The other branches include the locations at Keppel Bay, Asian Civilisations Museum, Clarke Quay and Jewel Changi Airport.

        FIND IT: 
      
Privé Tiong Bahru57 Eng Hoon Street, Block 57, Singapore7:30am – 10pm daily (last orders 10pm)Phone: +65 6776 0777
