
# Here’s A New ‘Borderlands 3’ Daylight Savings SHiFT Code For A Golden Key And Loot

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/03/heres-a-new-borderlands-3-daylight-savings-shift-code-for-a-golden-key-and-loot/)

Another day, another SHiFT Code from Borderlands overlord Randy Pitchford, who says that he’s giving out this one to celebrate Daylight Savings because sure, why not. It took me about twenty minutes this morning to puzzle out if I had actually gained or lost an hour of sleep after time rolled backwards, and it turns out it’s gained! Still, I hate Daylight Savings. It screws up daily reset times in all my video games.Anyway, moving on, here’s the code, which is active for a full 24 hours from 11 AM ET on 11/3 to 11 AM ET on 11/4:
 C9KBJ-6HXHT-9WJKW-BJ33B-SK95C
(Update: Bonus - hearing this might get you three keys until tomorrow. Try it: KB5JT-BFRZ9-XTWZ5-93KJB-3RRFT)
I believe this should work on all platforms, console and PC, unlike the last one I posted. I used it and got a bunch of epics, unlike my legendaries from last time. I believe that these key chests have a higher chance of dropping gear that is Anointed but non-Terror, so they’re useful in that regard. I still think they need their legendary chances bumped though, if we’re supposed to be using them in an era where almost every piece of gear we have is legendary. We get, what, five of these a week from Randy maybe? Also, we need more storage where we can put the new weapons that we’re getting, which is a huge problem now that we are also supposed to be farming Terror gear and builds. I have to use character mules to store them all. Mules! In 2019! Gah.
Anyway, I thought you should also be reminded that the other SHiFT code for the free four Halloween Bloody Harvest heads is about to expire tomorrow, so this is probably your last full day to use it. That code is below:
K9W3T-BJZ59-B9SHB-6B3JT-T9CFF
The code gets you four heads:
Wolf – Zane
Frankenthing – FL4K
Skull with Hat – Amara
Fat Clown – Moze
So you know, enjoy that. I really only like the wolf one but whatever. In any case, I hope your SHiFT loot is better than mine was, and perhaps we’ll start either getting more keys at a time or more legendaries per code soon. But no word on any changes coming to SHiFT codes yet.
