
# 'Zlatan Wants To Join Us'

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:29:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/serie-a/zlatan-ibrahimovic-wants-to-join-us-1/666711)

With a host of clubs said to be interested in signing former Manchester United striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, the president of a Serie A outfit has now claimed the superstar wants to join his team for an emotional reason.

        
          Read: 9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The 38-year-old scored 31 goals in Major League Soccer this season, but his contract with LA Galaxy expires in December.
He has been linked with many clubs as a result, including a return to United, but Bologna sporting director Walter Sabatini has now insisted Ibrahimovic is keen to join his Serie A team, citing an emotional connection with his former teammate Sinisa Mihajlovic, who is Bologna's current head coach and was diagnosed with leukaemia at the beginning of the season.
Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies! 
"Ibrahimovic wants to come to us because of the relationship he has with Sinisa," Sabatini said, as quoted by the Daily Mail.
"It is not impossible, it can be done, and if it should happen, it would be a matter of affection between them.
"Ibra would like to help Mihajlovic. I can say that we will do everything to make this madness happen."

        
          Read: The Highest-Paid Player At Each Serie A Club Revealed
        
      
Should he join, Bologna would be the fourth Serie A club Ibrahimovic will have played for, having represented Juventus, Inter Milan and AC Milan in the past.
