
# A Vote on Impeachment

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:00:08+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/podcasts/the-daily/trump-impeachment.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        
          Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: 
        
        
        
          
            Via Apple Podcasts
          
        
        
           | 
        
        
          
            Via RadioPublic
          
        
        
           | 
        
        
          
            Via Stitcher
          
        
      
The House of Representatives voted to begin the next phase of the impeachment inquiry into President Trump — one which will be open to public scrutiny.
Two Democrats in the House broke ranks and voted against the resolution, which outlined rules for the impeachment process. That was the only complication to an otherwise clean partisan split, with all House Republicans voting against the measure.
The tally foreshadowed the battle to come as Democrats take their case against the president fully into public view. Today, we discuss what the next phase of the inquiry will look like.

        On today’s episode:
      

        Background coverage:
      

        Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at 
        
          thedaily@nytimes.com
        
        . Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: 
        
          @mikiebarb
        
        . And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at 
        
          thedaily-ads@nytimes.com
        
        .
      
Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.
“The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan, Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmín Aguilera, M.J. Davis Lin, Dan Powell, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo and Monika Evstatieva. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Julia Simon and Lauren Jackson.

        Continue reading the main story
      
