
# Tottenham's Ben Davies lends support to Granit Xhaka over treatment from Arsenal boo boys

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Tom Hopkinson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-hopkinson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/tottenhams-ben-davies-lends-support-20795799)

Ben Davies says Arsenal’s arch rivals Tottenham will stand shoulder to shoulder with Granit Xhaka and every other player who suffers at the hands of the boo-boys.
The Spurs left-back admits life can be tough for footballers given the scrutiny they are under.
And he says that in hard times it is important that dressing rooms, and players, stick together.
Xhaka this week ­revealed the scale of the abuse he and his family have suffered on ­social media, which contributed to his outburst against the Arsenal fans who booed him last weekend in the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace .
Davies said: “I spoke to a ­psychologist we had at Wales and he said that footballers are really in a ­melting pot of anxiety when ­their performance is critiqued by ­millions of people every game.
“It’s not like if you work in a shop that your performance will get judged by millions.
“It’s a stressful environment. I get it if players get down and if players have evenings when they are ­struggling. That is normal and it’s something that needs to be spoken about more. All you can do if it’s your team-mate is try to help.
“Football is a game of very proud men. Some people don’t want to admit that they might be finding it tough. As a team and within our group, we have a good bunch of players, people who are close to one another, who can try to help one another out.
“Across football, nobody wants to see players getting booed. I can understand if these things happen, it’s part and parcel of the game. But as far as someone like Xhaka is concerned, when you read he is struggling or maybe needed counselling, nobody wants to see that.
“Rivalries aside, if we could help him out we would.”
Today’s more pressing rivalry will be the one that Everton and their Arsenal old-boy Theo Walcott bring as Spurs look to get back to winning ways following last week’s defeat by Liverpool .
And today’s game at Goodison Park will quickly be followed by an important Champions League trip to Red Star Belgrade on Wednesday.
Spurs have some ground to make up in ­Europe after drawing 2-2 at Olympiakos and slumping 7-2 at home to Bayern Munich. But a 5-0 win over Red Star in London last month ­rekindled hopes of qualification for the knockout stages.
Davies said: “The next two games are good opportunities to win. Everton have ­amazing players but are a bit stop-start at the ­moment. It’s a good opportunity for us to go there and show what we can do.
“Red Star is the same. It’s a game we want to be winning.
“We believe we can win. If we can overcome these two challenges, it will be a good bit of momentum going forward.”
Davies will be up against Walcott and, asked if it will be a case of him showing Walcott an imaginary back pocket, as Ashley Cole famously did to Cristiano Ronaldo in 2006, he said: “Hopefully. That would be nice.
“I am expecting a tough game. It’s one of those where you have to be vigilant all the time against him because he is a smart player.”
