
# AUS vs PAK | I use placement and timing to make up my T20 weaknesses, opines Steve Smith

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:57:06+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/aus-vs-pak-i-use-placement-and-timing-to-make-up-my-t-20-weaknesses-asserts-steve-smith?utm_medium=rss)


        After playing a match-winning innings against Pakistan, Steve Smith has affirmed that he uses placement and timing to make up his lack of muscle power in the shortest version of the game. He has also given a sneak-peak to his thought-process when he approaches a limited-overs game.
      
Pakistan captain Babar Azam and big-hitter Iftikhar Ahmed laid a solid foundation for Pakistan and gave Australia a challenging total of 151 runs to chase down, Smith made a short work of the run-chase on his way to a classy 51-ball 80. That innings put some doubts about the talisman's T20 batting to rest, as he has made way to the public consciousness in the format once again. On being asked what worked on his favour when he was at it, Smith answered it in a crisp manner.
"If you look at my batting record in T20 internationals, it's not crash hot. I guess you have to bear in mind... (early in my career) I was batting No. 8 or 9, coming in and slogging, facing half a dozen balls tops. It's never easy so it's going to affect your record at some point. I don't doubt my ability. I know the tempos of the game ... and I've played a lot of (T20) cricket now," Smith said after the match, reported Cricbuzz.
"I may not be as strong as some of the other guys but I use placement and timing. The white ball usually flies off the bat particularly when it's brand new. If you're timing the ball well you get value for your shots most places."
One of the prime aspects in Steve Smith's batting is that it revolves around solidity and although he has averaged a cool 33.55 in his recent stints in GT20 Canada, CPL and the IPL in the past 18 months, he hit it at a strike rate of 119. However, it was the approach that made the difference at the Manuka Oval yesterday where he ensured his end of the inning strike rate went up to 156.86. The New South Wales man put it down to the calculative approach that he adopts during a run-chase.
"If you're chasing you weigh up the situation and what you need and what you need to go at, which bowlers you want to target and just work out the maths in your head and that's chasing. Batting first you have to sum up conditions and how the wicket is playing, what you think a good score is and who is in the opposition, all those sorts of things. I've played a lot of cricket now, I'm pretty experienced and my role in this team is to fix it if the top don't come off. They (the top order) have been exceptional in these games that we've played, Sri Lanka and the first one against Pakistan before we got washed out. They're pretty consistent up top so if they don't come off then it's up to me to fix it," he added.
