
# Furious Coronation Street fans want Dr Ali axed after Emma almost dies

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:47:11+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/furious-coronation-street-fans-want-20792593)

Furious Coronation Street fans want Dr Ali Neeson axed after Emma Brooker almost died.
Emma came into work late in agonising pain, but Maria Connor suggested it was just the dodgy kebab and a hangover.
Dr Ali came into the barbers to give his diagnosis - and felt threatened when he saw Gary Windass about to go on a date with his ex.
The jealous doctor didn't examine poor Emma, who covered up her pain then grimaced in agony when she was left alone.
When Gary and Maria came back from the pub they spotted lifeless Emma lying unconscious on the floor.
Steve McDonald was horrified when he came out of The Rovers and saw Emma being taken into an ambulance.
At the hospital, Steve was told Emma had a ruptured appendix and needed an emergency operation to save her life.
Furious Steve lashed out when he discovered Ali had told Emma she had food poisoning.
He yelled at Ali: "My daughter could have died because of you. You should have known. Its' your job to know."
Angry Steve then grabbed "negligent" Ali and shoved him up against the wall in a moment of rage.
He shouted: "This isn’t over. You're not fit to be a doctor. I’m gonna make sure you’re struck off as a doctor and taking you to court for all you’ve got in case you nearly kill someone else's kid."
Corrie viewers flocked to Twitter to blast Dr
"Ali should be struck of! a doctor acting with incompetence! he's a liability and has proved that time and time again," said one viewer.
Another added: "Maybe he need that as he is not fit under the influence of drugs"
"WHAT! Operate straight away. Not Emma. Nooooooo. Quick, I need the number for CQC. I'm whistleblowing, Ali," said a third.
However, the good doctor did have some fans that claimed he was not to blame.
One viewer said: "Ummm Steve, for one Ali wasn't in shift working, two Maria rang him and asked to check on Emma, three Emma & Maria told Ali that she had been drinking and had a kebab, four if she was that much in pain she could of gone to A&E"
"He wasn’t on duty and I wouldn’t call that an examination either. Surely he can’t be struck off for that," added another.
A third said: "Surely if Ali is off duty he he isn't responsible? He was in a difficult situation with Gary trying to be a hardman"

        *Coronation Street airs Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 7:30pm and 8:30pm on ITV
      
