
# Vietnam police arrest eight over UK truck deaths

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:49:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [RFI](http://en.rfi.fr/asia/20191104-vietnam-arrests-eight-over-uk-truck-deaths)


        Vietnam has arrested eight more people in connection with the deaths of 39 people found in a truck in Britain last month who are believed to be Vietnamese.
      
On October 28th, eight women and 31 men were found in a refrigerated lorry in an industrial park in Essex, east of London, in a case that has shaken the UK and exposed the deadly risks of illegal migration from Vietnam to Europe.
British police initially believed the victims were Chinese, but several Vietnamese families came forward to say they feared their relatives were on the truck.
None of the dead have been officially identified so far.

        Arrests confirmed by Vietnamese police
      
Many of the suspected victims came from just two provinces in central Vietnam, including Nghe An province where eight people have been arrested in connection with the deaths, police said Monday.
"This was a very painful incident, a humanitarian accident," said Nguyen Huu Cau, director of Nghe An police, confirming the arrests in video comments carried by the state-run Tuoi Tre newspaper.
The official Vietnam News Agency also confirmed the arrests, saying the suspects were detained for "organising (and) brokering people to go abroad and stay abroad illegally".
Two other suspects were arrested in Ha Tinh province last week in relation to the Essex incident.
Brokers are rife in remote towns in central Vietnam, a hotspot for illegal migration into Europe.
DNA samples and fingerprints have been taken from several families in the area as officials in Vietnam and Britain work to identify the victims.
Families of the missing have told AFP that their children had gone overseas to find work, hoping to earn money to send back home.
