
# Climate Darwinism Makes Disabled People Expendable

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Imani Barbarin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/imanibarbarin/2019/11/02/climate-darwinism-makes-disabled-people-expendable/)

When straw bans started gaining steam in the public conversation, disabled people sat uneasily confronted by the readiness with which many non-disabled people seemed to dismiss their needs. Now, with power shut-offs taking lives and articles blaming air pollution on inhalers, disabled people are learning just how expendable non-disabled people see them.While straw ban talks may have faded from the public discourse, it was not so long ago that disabled people were met with hostility and ableism defending their usage of single-use plastic straws. For each post detailing straws as the safest and most affordable option for people who had difficulty taking in liquid, responses suggested ineffective alternatives. At times, commenters told disabled people their existences were burdens on society. Since straw bans have taken effect around the country, disabled folk have been isolated and humiliated for using or asking for plastic straws in public despite it being an access need. Some have even questioned going out at all.
While people with disabilities are familiar with casual ableism, deaths caused by the PG&E shut-off put the effects of disability ignorance into focus. On October 12th, 12 minutes into the PG&E power shut-off, a man who used oxygen died after the middle-of-the-night power loss amidst murky details from the company left him no time to prepare. In posts online, commenters blamed the man for his death and asserted that he should have anticipated and bought a generator. It takes a certain level of callousness to tell disabled people, a group that makes 66 cents to the non-disabled dollar and who are allowed to be paid well beneath the minimum wage, to spend $5,000-10,000 to avoid death.
Recently, BBC News published an article detailing a study asserting that inhalers possess as large a carbon footprint as consuming meat. The report did weakly say that it was up to the individual user as to whether or not to switch the type of inhaler they use, but it showed a lack of understanding about how easy it is not for disabled people to change their medication. The author also neglected to mention that air pollution transit and corporations are the leading cause of asthma. In one swift move, the writer blamed victims of climate change for climate change.   
This year, the United Nations published a directive that governments and organizations must include disabled people in planning for climate change. Not only does more severe weather endanger the lives of disabled people and throw them into even more profound economic insecurity, but preventative measures proposed have thus far neglected the existence of the disability community. As one of the most vulnerable populations, disabled people cannot afford the ignorance of the non-disabled.
Deaths within the community are already mounting due to climate, and disabled people are watching as governments fail to address their fears. Generally, in the era of corporate inclusion, this would be the point at which citizens might turn to private enterprise to push the needle on disability inclusion in climate change. Disabled people shouldn’t count on that. Judging from how Starbucks’ straw ban further pitted environmentalism against disabled people and PG&E’s inability to properly communicate with the public, that day could still be far away.
With one of the largest generations, Baby Boomers, aging into disability, the Climate Crisis ceases to become a problem affecting only disabled people. Entire families will need to address access accessibility not just in their homes but in their emergency planning as well.
Disabled people still haven’t recovered from Hurricane Maria, where dozens of people died and are currently still missing. Hurricane Dorian decimated the Bahamas and its infrastructure making it difficult for disabled people to get out of harm’s way and receive aid on the island. Those with disabilities and chronic illness in California fear encroaching wildfires and the possibility of another power shut-off.
Including and seeking advice from disabled people in climate discussions is imperative for preservation efforts to ensure humanity’s longevity. As the income gap widens, healthcare remains uncertain, and ableism coloring their every interaction, disabled people are likely feeling this lack of consideration for the disabled community is Climate Darwinism.
The disability community is living in a dystopian present where conserving the planet is in direct competition with the value of their lives. Their deaths at the hands of negligence and discrimination re-packaged as climate awareness are unacceptable losses. Climate discussions that fail to include disabled and chronically ill people turn the conversation from “preserving the planet for all,” to “preserving the planet for the few.” In the battle of the “survival of the fittest,” disabled people will always lose.
