
# Muhammad Yunus secures bail after surrendering to labour court

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:08:00+00:00**

Author: **bdnews24.com**

Original: [Bdnews24](https://bdnews24.com/bangladesh/2019/11/03/muhammad-yunus-secures-bail-after-surrendering-to-labour-court)


        Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus has secured bail after surrendering to the court in five cases started by suspended employees of Grameen Communications.
      
Acting Chairman of Third Labour Court Zakia Parveen passed the order on Sunday.
An arrest warrant had been issued for Yunus after he failed to appear in the labour court in connection with three of these cases.
The High Court subsequently ordered Yunus to surrender to the court by Nov 7.
He appeared before the court on Sunday and was granted bail on Tk 10,000 bonds in each of the cases, said Wasiur Rahman, the court's registrar.
Grameen Communications Workers, Employees Union General Secretary Abdus Salam, Publicity Secretary Shah Alam, and another person initiated the cases on July 3, after they were sacked in June for forming a trade union at the workplace.
The court had also summoned the company’s Managing Director Naznin Sultana and Deputy General Manager Khandaker Abu Abedin. The judge granted them bail when they appeared in court on Wednesday.
Grameen Communications is an organisation under the Grameen Trust.
The court also summoned Grameen Communications Managing Director Nazneen Sultana and Deputy General Manager Khandaker Abu Abedin.
Both of them surrendered to the court and were granted bail.

        QUESTION OF TERMINATION DOES NOT ARISE: GRAMEEN
      
Grameen Communications has claimed in a rejoinder that the question of termination of services does not arise in its case as the sacked employees, including the two plaintiffs, were hired on contract.
It protested against media reports that "Grameen Communications employees initiated the cases against Nobel Laureate Professor Muhammad Yunus, Ms Nazneen Sultana and Mr Abedeen on July 3 after they were terminated in June for forming a trade union at the workplace".
The application made for forming the trade union in Grameen Communications was rejected by the registrar, as contractual employees cannot form a trade union, the organisation said.
“The question of terminating them on the ground of holding position in Trade Union does not arise. Services of some of these employees were discontinued as per contract conditions. For others, their services were not renewed after the expiry of the services. In no case was there any incidence of termination of services,” it added.
