
# Police crack down on BAYAN

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:41:02+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/police-crack-down-bayan)

Sinas said that the three suspects identified as  Ram Carlo Bautista, Alma Moran, and Reina Mae Nasino will be facing charges for violation of Republic Act 10591 or the Comprehensive Firearms and Ammunition Regulations Act of 2013 and RA 9516 or illegal possession of explosives.
The NCRPO said that the three were arrested inside a a BAYAN office at the corner of Flora and Clemente Streets in Barangay 183 in Tondo which was raided by combined NCRPO and PNP Criminal Investigation and Detection Group operatives past 1 a.m. yesterday.
The raiders seized several firearms, assorted live ammunition and a grenade. The three activists were immediately placed under the custody of the PNP-CIDG for further questioning and documentation.
PNP spokesman Brig. Gen. Bernard M. Banac said that the arrests were legitimate and done in accordance with the law.  “The series of arrests of activist leaders and members shows the rule of law and criminal justice system at work,” he said.
“The PNP performs its mandate to enforce the law following established procedures with utmost respect for human rights. We assure the public that the PNP remains alert and vigilant to prevent occurrence of crimes and ready to respond to any emergency, calamity and call for assistance,” Banac added.
Sinas also denied having any hand in the recent search operations conducted against left-leaning groups. He issued the denial amid claims by Bayan Muna party-list Representative Carlos Zarate that he recently met with a Quezon City judge who issued the search warrants used by the police to raid Bayan Muna and Gabriela offices in Negros Occidental.
Last week NCRPO and Manila Police District operatives arrested a couple accused of “leftist” links for illegal possession of firearms and explosives,.
Sinas identified the two as Michael Bartolome,39, a native of Ilocos Norte and his live-in partner Cora Agovida,37, a native of Masbate province who are both residing at  Room 1189-B, Julio Nakpil Street in Barangay 686, Zone 75, District 5, Paco, Manila.
Sinas said that agents of the MPD under Brig. Gen. Bernabe M. Balba raided the couple’s residence and placed them under arrest after the search yielded a cache of firearms, explosives and ammunition.
The NCRPO director said they are still verifying the links of the couple with militant groups in Metro Manila.  “Ang alam ng MPD, ang alam namin, these are mere violations pertaining to firearms and explosives, Ngayon lang namin nalaman kasi nag-rally ang Gabriella sa harap ng MPD. Sinasabi na nila na ito ay secretary ng ganito, ng ganun,” Sinas said.
“So, again, we tasked our Intel Unit to coordinate with our allied units to check kung ano ba talaga yung background nila. Sa ngayon, wala pa kaming complete details kung sila ba talaga yan o registered member ba sila, or what. Ang ginawa lang ng MPD, is to implement the approved search warrants,” the Metro Manila police chief said.
Recovered during the raid were one caliber .45 Colt Mark IV Series 70 semi-automatic pistol with serial no. 129435;  one Armscor cal. .45 pistol with defaced serial numbers; two cal. .45 magazines with 13 live ammunition; two hand grenades; several mobile phones; one Apple Macbook laptop computer; two Seagate external memory drives; 13 USB drives; five assorted identification cards;  P7,920 in various denominations; three revolutionary t-shirts;  four boxes containing scores of revolutionary books and assorted subversive documents.
