
# Canelo Alvarez vs Sergey Kovalev prize money and purse for world title fight

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:22:08+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-20800701)

Canelo Alvarez will earn a stunning £27million from his fight with Sergey Kovalev.
The Mexican, the highest-earning athlete in boxing, is bidding to win a world title at a fourth different weight when he takes on light-heavyweight champion Kovalev.
And having signed a huge £282m, 11-fight deal with streaming service DAZN last year, Alvarez is guaranteed the same fee every time he fights.
Kovalev will earn around £10m but will give several million of that to his promoter as per his contract.
The Russian is fighting for the second time in less than three months having stopped Britain's Anthony Yarde at the end of August.
Before the fight, Alvarez admitted he was taking a risk moving up to 175lb.
"Yes it is crazy [to go up by two divisions], but I think that in order to make history we have to do this kind of thing and we believe in our abilities as a fighter, in that we have the experience, and the strength to win this fight and that is why we are here. We got to this field because we believe in my abilities to overcome this great challenge," Canelo told ESPN.
"We've trained for [fighting a bigger man], enduring the pace of a heavier weight than myself. I sparred with larger fighters, heavier fighters, fighters at weights that would allow me to fight at 175, to allow me adapt to that [weight].
"The most dangerous thing about Kovalev is to climb two weight classes to where he fights. He is a strong fighter, he knows how to manage the distance, he uses his legs very well, he already has experience in this division, I have to take care of everything. I am facing something that I've never faced before, let's see how it goes."
