
# Bring Home The Amazon Echo Show 5 For Just $59

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:15:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-amazon-echo-show-5-black-friday-sale-deal.html)

Amazon has the Echo Show 5 on sale for just $59.99 right now. That's good for $30 off of its regular price. Bringing it back down to its lowest price ever, last seen on Prime Day back in July.
This is a 5-inch Echo Show, which is about half the size of the regular Echo Show (that's 10.1-inches). With this smaller model, you can put it into more tight places, like your kitchen counter or on the sink shelf in the bathroom. Though, there is still a camera on this Echo Show 5, so the bathroom may not be the best place to put it.
With the Echo Show 5, you're going to be able to do video chats with your friends and family using Skype or just over Alexa. Which can be very convenient, and would be a good gift to give to your parents or grandparents, as they'll be able to keep tabs on their kids and grandkids. And see them anytime. Which is a really cool thing to have.
Advertisement
Now, this of course has Amazon Alexa built-in. And with it having a screen, it means that you're going to be able to see more information coming in, when you ask Alexa something.
For instance, ask Alexa about the weather, and she'll be able to tell you the current temp as well as the high and low for the day. But with the screen, you can see the current conditions – whether it's snowing, raining, etc – as well as the weather for the next few days, which can be super helpful. this also works with for controlling your smart home devices and much more.
You can pick up the Amazon Echo Show 5 from Amazon during this limited time sale by clicking here, but you better hurry as this will not last all that long.
Advertisement

        Amazon Echo show 5 - Amazon - $59
      
