
# Rapper T.I. says he visits the gynecologist every year with daughter to check her hymen

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:47:22+00:00**

Author: **Danielle Garrand**

Original: [CBS News](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/t-i-daughter-rapper-t-i-says-he-visits-the-gynecologist-every-year-with-daughter-to-check-her-hymen/)

T.I. is facing backlash on social media for saying he goes to the gynecologist with his teenage daughter each year to "check her hymen" is still intact. The rapper's controversial comments were in response to a question about whether he's had the "sex talk" with his daughters, reports BuzzFeed News.
In a Tuesday episode of the podcast "Ladies Like Us," T.I. was speaking with hosts Nazanin Mandi and Nadia Moham about parenting, when the question came up. The rapper, who has six children, brought up how he handles the discussion with his oldest daughter, 18-year-old Deyjah Harris.
"Not only have we had the conversation. We have yearly trips to the gynecologist to check her hymen," T.I. said, according to BuzzFeed. "Yes, I go with her."
The rapper told the hosts that after the teen's 16th birthday party, he put a sticky note on her door that read, "'Gyno. Tomorrow. 9:30.'"
"So we'll go and sit down and the doctor comes and talk, and the doctor's maintaining a high level of professionalism," T.I. explained, adding that the doctor asked Harris if was ok to tell her dad the results. "He's like, 'You know, sir, I have to, in order to share information' — I'm like, 'Deyjah, they want you to sign this so we can share information. Is there anything you would not want me to know? See, Doc? Ain't no problem.'"
T.I. added he had been told the hymen can be torn or broken in activities other that vaginal sex, such as "bike riding, athletics, horseback riding, and just other forms of athletic physical activity." However, he appeared to brush the comments off.
"So I say, 'Look, Doc, she don't ride no horses, she don't ride no bike, she don't play no sports," he said, BuzzFeed reported. "Just check the hymen, please, and give me back my results expeditiously.'"
He also informed the podcast hosts, as well as their listeners, that "as of her 18th birthday, her hymen is still intact."
