
# Manny Pacquiao’s Next Fight: Why Danny Garcia Is The Only Acceptable Garcia For ‘Pac-Man’ To Face

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/06/manny-pacquiaos-next-fight-why-danny-garcia-is-the-only-acceptable-garcia-for-pac-man-to-face/)

For months we’ve been hearing WBA Welterweight Champion Manny Pacquiao’s next fight would be a title defense against either Danny or Mikey Garcia. The two are not related and at this point, they’re not on the same level as it would relate to acceptable opponents for Pacquiao. The Filipino legend is coming off a huge upset victory over Keith Thurman in July. Most, including me, didn’t expect Pacquiao to handle Thurman, but that’s exactly what he did. Now as the announcement for his next fight draws near, everyone in the boxing community is waiting to hear who his opponent will be.
Both Mikey and Danny are a part of the Premier Boxing Champions stable, so there shouldn’t be any significant road blocks with negotiations. A fight could get done between Pacquiao and either man. However, only one of them is in a position that would warrant a shot at Pacquiao and the payday that will come with it.
Mikey took a gamble in his last fight. He moved up two weight classes to challenge the undefeated Errol Spence Jr. for his IBF welterweight title. Predictably, Spence was too big and strong for Mikey. He pitched a 12-round shutout and easily won a unanimous decision. After this fight and with the way Spence handled him, the last thing that should be on Mikey’s mind is another fight at 147 pounds.
Obviously, that’s where a boatload of the major paydays are, but it’s also where he’ll find most of his mismatches and none of them favor him. It’s true, Pacquiao is a very small welterweight. He and Mikey will be much closer in size, but there is still no real future at 147 pounds for the latter. Also, he’s done nothing to earn this opportunity in the weight class. He’s yet to win a round as a 147-pounder, so why would he be rewarded with one of the biggest fights of 2020?
There are welterweights with better resumes than Danny, but not too many. At 35-2 with 21 KOs the two-division world champion is one of the top fighters in the weight class. He’s coming off a dominant victory via seventh-round TKO over the tough Adrian Granados in his last fight. While Danny isn’t the most mobile fighter, he is an accurate counter puncher with big-time power. That’s especially the case with his left hand.
Garcia’s only losses are competitive decision defeats to Thurman and Shawn Porter. In this era, losses don’t come more respectable in the welterweight division. Putting Danny in the ring with Pacquiao just feels right, and it’s a fight fans will flock to see if and when it’s announced in the next few months.
Hopefully, the matchmakers and powers that be choose the right Garcia.
