
# Hibs player ratings as Tom James suffers horror show in Celtic Betfred Cup defeat

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:53:28+00:00**

Author: **Steven Mair**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/hibs-player-ratings-tom-james-20798730)

Hibs' woes this season continued as they were put to the sword by Celtic at Hampden.
Mohamed Elyounoussi and Scott Brown were both at the double as the Parkhead side ran out 5-2 winners, securing a place in the Betfred Cup final.
Paul Heckingbottom 's side were slow out the blocks and it was an uphill battle right from the off as they found themselves 2-0 down within the first 20 minutes.
It was a spirited second half performance from the Edinburgh side as Florian Kamberi's glancing header tried to inspire an unlikely comeback, but it was too little too late.
Celtic were a constant threat going forward, but there were some disappointing performances defensively from a Hibees point of view.
Tom James, in particular, had a rough afternoon as he was terrorised by Elyounoussi throughout the 90 minutes.
Here's how Hibs players rated in the defeat to the holders.
The keeper could do little about most of Celtic’s goals as the four men in front of him turned in dire performances. But he handed the fourth to them on a plate by dropping a corner straight to the feet of Scott Brown. Apart from that, the usually impressive Maxwell was really on a hiding to nothing all game thanks to his defence - 5
Hibs’ right-back was posted missing as Mohamed Elyounoussi headed in the opener for Celts. He was turned inside out for Elyounoussi’s second and overall just had a terrible time against the Norwegian winger. A penny for the thoughts of Jason Naismith on the Hibs bench who has been a consistent performer in Scotland - 5
The centre-back was poor and couldn’t deal with Odsonne Edouard dropping deep. As Callum McGregor and Elyounoussi ghosted in behind for the second and third goals, he was yards off the pace. A terrible performance from both Hibs centre-backs and he’ll need to perform much better to keep Ryan Porteous out the team - 5
The Hibs captain showed how not to lead a team in a big game. Hanlon struggled badly and was nowhere to be seen at every Celtic goal. When you’re a centre-back and you’ve conceded two goals from literal yards out, you’ve put a foot badly wrong - 5
Going up against James Forrest is never an easy task but Hibs stalwart Stevenson barely had a chance. Struggled at stopping crosses and was skint time after time by Forrest and the overlapping Jeremie Frimpong. Couldn’t stop the cross from Forrest that led to the opener - 5

         
      
The Swede’s goal came out of some great fortune but it was a well-taken strike underneath Forster. It gave the downbeat Hibees a sliver of hope going into half-time that was quickly extinguished. But besides that, Hallberg barely laid a glove on Celtic’s rampant midfield and was soft in the challenge - 5
For a defensive midfielder whose job was to stop Celtic’s attacking midfielders, he turned in a terrible performance. Little surprise that Paul Heckingbottom saw fit to take him off at half-time for Florian Kamberi. His place in the Hibs side really should come under more scrutiny - 5
 
Had a decent curled effort early on that nearly caught out Fraser Forster. For most of the game Horgan looked like the only Hibs player who truly believed his side could get through to the final. Taken off just after the hour mark for Vykintas Slivka - 6

         
      
The midfielder isn’t known for tough tackling or for marshalling the midfield. What he is supposed to be good at is long-shots and set-pieces and he offered barely anything in that regard. Ballooned a chance over the bar that would have made it 4-3  - 6
 
Hibs’ creative genius simply failed to spark on the big stage at Hampden. Ineffectual in attack and a passenger when defending, Allan was well marshalled by Scott Brown in midfield. He’s rightly well-regarded in Scottish football but this was a no-show from the playmaker - 5
The Hibees’ number nine barely had a sniff up against Celtic’s colossal two centre-backs. Doidge has struggled to find the net virtually since joining Hibs and that predictably continued today. His hold-up play was non-existent and on numerous occasions started a Celtic attack with a slack pass - 5
Subs:
Florian Kamberi - 6
Vykintas Slivka - 3
Martin Boyle - 3
