
# LATOKEN Launches an IEO of Economic Interest in SpaceX to Hedge Dino Asteroid Disaster

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:15:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/latoken-launches-an-ieo-of-economic-interest-in-spacex-to-hedge-dino-asteroid-disaster/)

Valentin Preobrazhenskiy, CEO of LATOKEN, commented:
Accordingly to the USPX token issuer 10 USPX track the economic value of 1 SpaceX share. The USPX Token is issued by Unicorn Tokenization Corp. based on the Ambisafe Regulatory Aware Protocol. The issuer is managed by Threesixty Elements S.A. (BVI FSC authorized and licensed, RIA regulated by the SEC, and a FINRA member).
Please be aware that neither Space Exploration Technologies Corp. nor its CEO Elon Musk are affiliated or involved in the organization of USPX token issuance and offering.
According to Unicorn Tokenization Corp., the raised funds will be invested in direct or indirect economic interest in Space Exploration Technologies Corp. Otherwise, the funds will be transferred back to the contributors. The potential availability of SpaceX shares is confirmed by a comfort letter issued by US Capital Global Partners LLC. to Ambisafe.
LATOKEN does not provide any warranty that the information provided by the token issuer is either complete or accurate. Investors must assess all the risks of both the underlying asset and the token legal structure. Investments in technology could be a great way to build the future while involving a high degree of risk of losing value.
The Offering Memorandum and other information related to the token issuer and SpaceX are available on the LATOKEN Launchpad page: https://latoken.com/ico/ETH-USPX
