
# Cleveland-Cliffs: Why Are Profits Set To Drop By 70% In A Year?

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/06/cleveland-cliffs-why-are-profits-set-to-drop-by-70-in-a-year/)

Cleveland-Cliffs (NYSE: CLF) is witnessing a double whammy with projections of lower revenue and sharp decrease in margins. The company’s profitability is expected to decline by more than 70% in a year, with Trefis projecting net income to drop from $1.1 billion in 2018 to $0.3 billion in 2019, translating into a net income margin of 15.5% in 2019, significantly lower than the 48.4% recorded in 2018. Deterioration in the bottom line is expected to be driven by a drop in iron ore prices in the second half of 2019, on the back of higher supply than was earlier expected and US-China trade war leading to lower demand, along with a sharp increase in the cost of production.You can view the Trefis interactive dashboard – Cleveland-Cliffs: Cost And Profitability Analysis – to better understand the factors causing a sharp decline in margins, and alter the assumptions to arrive at your own estimates of revenue, expenses, and profits for the company.

        Revenue Performance
      
To understand segment-wise revenue performance in detail, please refer to the following analysis- Cleveland-Cliffs’ Revenues: How does CLF make money?

        Expenses And Profitability
      

        a) Cost of Goods Sold
      

        b) Loss from Extinguishment of Debt
      
The company’s interest expense, selling and administrative cost, along with tax expense/benefits also have a strong influence on the company’s margins. Please refer to the following Trefis analysis to understand the historical and projected performance of each expense item for the company- Cleveland-Cliffs: Cost And Profitability Analysis.
Net income is expected to drop from $1,128 million in 2018 to $332 million in 2019, which marks a decline of about 71% in profitability, driven by lower revenues and with a sharp increase in total expenses, primarily led by cost of sales and loss from debt repayment.
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
