
# Man City backed to beat Liverpool - by man who played for Blues last time they won at Anfield

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-city-backed-beat-liverpool-20835583)

The last time ­Manchester City won at Anfield, Busted were at No.1, Tony Blair was Prime Minister, and Pep Guardiola was still ­playing.
In May 2003, two late goals from Nicolas Anelka sealed a 2-1 win, a first victory for City at Anfield for 22 years, denying the Reds a place in the ­Champions League.
City have failed to win at Anfield on 18 subsequent visits, 16 in the league, a miserable run Guardiola’s side will look to end on Sunday to cut Liverpool ’s six-point lead and reignite the title race.
Niclas Jensen, who played for City that day, reckons Guardiola’s side can win at Anfield and claimed ­Liverpool could ultimately choke with the pressure of trying to end their 30-year wait for the title.
The former Denmark ­international, who now works as a football agent, said: “I still think City have the better team and better players. But you have to say Liverpool have been looking really strong this season.
“So, it’s going to be a tough game. But I hope and think City are going to win there this time.
“Liverpool are out in front in the title race, but I still see City doing it again, ­especially because – and you’ve seen before – it’s also mind games.
"If City can ­narrow the gap and not let it get any bigger, all of a ­sudden, come February and March, when the more ­decisive games come up, it will be a mental thing.
“People will start writing about it and talking about it – ‘Can it happen again?’ and ‘Will Liverpool choke now?’
Peter Schmeichel – Retired in 2003, now a pundit and brand ambassador
David Sommeil – Forced to stop playing in 2008 following a heart attack.
Richard Dunne – Retired in 2015, recently finished A-Licence coaching badge.
Sylvain Distin – Retrained as a strength and conditioning coach after retiring.
Niclas Jensen – Now works as a football agent all over Europe.
Kevin Horlock – Manager at Needham Market Academy in Suffolk.
Shaun Wright-Phillips – Went on to play in the MLS, retired this year.
Ali Benarbia – Works as a consultant for sports broadcasters in France.
Joey Barton – Manager of League One side Fleetwood Town.
Robbie Fowler – Head coach of Australian A-League team Brisbane Roar.
Nicolas Anelka – Currently a youth coach with French club Lille.
 
“Then, I think City will do it again, if there’s not too much of a points deficit.”
While Anelka’s goals sealed the win for City, ­Jensen’s abiding memory was a world-class save from Peter Schmeichel, playing his penultimate game before retiring.
“I remember it was a ­really good team performance,” said Jensen. “Nicolas scored both goals, one right at the end. But the one thing that I remember most was an amazing save from Peter.
"It’s stayed with me all these years, because it’s probably the best save I’ve ever seen in a game I’ve played.
“I know Peter well, he’s one of my mates. He was 39 or 40 at that time and it was a world-class save which made him look like a 22-year-old!
“I don’t think there’s one particular reason why City haven’t won at Anfield for so long.
“Even though teams change and certain players come and go, with certain grounds, certain sides, it’s always difficult to go there, and that’s the case for City at Anfield.”
Richard Dunne, who was also in that last City team to win at Anfield, reckons his former club would settle for a draw on Sunday, given their poor record there.
“For City, it’s so important they don’t fall further behind Liverpool,” said Dunne, who is living in the South of France and who has just completed his A-Licence coaching badge.
“I’m sure for them, with the injuries they’ve got and the fact Liverpool are so strong at home, a draw would be a good result for City.
“The intensity Liverpool play at when they’re at home, particularly with the crowd behind them, makes them so difficult to play against.
“When we won there back then, you wouldn’t have thought City would go 16 years without doing it again, but sometimes you get those unlucky grounds.
“City have progressed so much since then, but ­Liverpool have come back in the last few years and ­become stronger and stronger, and now present a real challenge to City.”
