
# Insider Threats: DOJ Says Twitter Employees Spied On User Accounts For Saudi Arabia

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:35:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Masnick**

Original: [Techdirt](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20191106/17433043341/insider-threats-doj-says-twitter-employees-spied-user-accounts-saudi-arabia.shtml)

We live in interesting times. A year ago, the NY Times had reported that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was aggressively using Twitter to keep tabs on and harass critics of the government. As part of that story, it also claimed that the Saudis might have a "mole" within the company in the form of Ali Alzabarah, who had risen through the engineering ranks to a point where he could access information on people the Saudi government was interested in. That story only noted that Western intelligence agencies had alerted the company that the Saudis were "grooming" Alzabarah. Now, the DOJ has charged two former Twitter employees, including Alzabarah, along with a third individual who worked in social media marketing, with spying for the Saudis. The complaint is worth reading.
It shows how officials appeared to groom the Twitter employees, starting with Ahmad Abouammo, who was (for a time) a marketing manager at Twitter, but who left the company in 2015. It describes how Saudi officials built up a relationship with him, setting up a tour of Twitter's headquarters, and then later providing gifts, such as an expensive watch. Soon after, Abouammo is accused of accessing information on Saudi critics and dissidents;
It goes on like this with the Saudi official sending "reports" about different accounts claiming they violate Twitter's policies -- which had nothing to do with Abouammo's role in marketing. And then comes this:
There are a few more such transactions. Even after Abouammo quits Twitter (to go to Amazon) he apparently continues to receive money, and would reach out to former colleagues at Twitter to try to access the information the Saudis were seeking. Also, according to the DOJ, Abouammo lied to the FBI (not a good idea), then tried to "alter" documents he gave to the FBI (a very, very bad idea). Indeed, the DOJ's complaint suggests that while the FBI was talking to him, he asked to go use his computer without them present, and then presented them with what they believe to be a doctored invoice.
Yeah, don't do that.
As for Alzabarah, the DOJ has details of him flying to DC to meet with various Saudi officials, and then upon returning to work getting pretty damn busy getting info on Twitter users critical of the Saudi government.
The DOJ then notes that the Saudi official had email notes detailing the locations of some of the key Twitter users that Alzabarah was looking up for them. Alzabarah also created notes for himself about whether or not he was eligible for reward money the Saudi government was offering for information on certain "terrorists." There are also notes about "secur[ing]" his "future and my family's." Alzabarah later fled the US and apparently resigned from Twitter via email after his flight took off from LA.
This is all kind of fascinating. For all the concerns about outside hacking, insider attacks are still considered a much bigger threat and much harder to detect or prevent. While it does sound like there were some lax controls in place to prevent people who shouldn't have access to certain information from getting to that info, that's not all that unexpected in Silicon Valley (and an area that many companies need to significantly improve in). The complaint does suggest that Alzabarah made "unauthorized" access to this information, even though he was allowed to access a tool. That certainly suggests criminal CFAA charges, and some aspects of that seem problematic. While it does appear that there are other laws Alzabarah broke, arguing it's a CFAA violation to use tools he was granted access to seems like a stretch. And, of course, there are broader questions with Abouammo and why he even had access to any of this data at all.
If anything, hopefully these charges wake up many Silicon Valley companies to the value and importance of better internal controls on how data is made accessible. In the rush to build up companies, insider controls are often one of the last things companies care about (if no one uses a service, who cares, and if a service is growing like gangbusters, then there are many other, more important issues to focus on). But companies need to recognize that when these services are used as broadly as they are, they become an attack vector, and employees are often targeted by governments to try to access information. Of course, it's always going to be impossible to stop all access to information -- hell, even the NSA has had to deal with poor controls and "insider" attempts to access information (see: Snowden, Ed). But it does seem increasingly important for companies to be aware of how valuable their data might be to governments, and do more to protect it.
doj twitter charges (PDF) doj twitter charges (Text)
