
# Watch Video: Kriti Sanon listen to 'Jine Mera Dil Luteya' while enjoying a black coffee on the sets of 'MIMI'

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:51:20+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/watch-video-kriti-sanon-listen-to-jine-mera-dil-luteya-while-enjoying-a-black-coffee-on-the-sets-of-mimi/articleshow/71962892.cms)

Kriti Sanon received a lot of appreciation and love from the audience after the trailer of Ashutosh Gowariker's 'Panipat' dropped over the internet. The actress will be playing the role of Parvati Bai, wife of Peshwa Sadashiv Rao Bhau in the film.
Also, Kriti kickstarted the first schedule of her next film 'MIMI' in Rajasthan. And she took to her Instagram story share a video of her enjoying Punjabi songs on the sets of the film. In the monochrome video posted by the actress, she can be seen sitting on a chair in a t-shirt and pajama while her hair artist working on her hair. Jazzy B's 'Jine Mera Dil Luteya' is being played in the background. The caption of her post read, "Best way to wake up: Black coffee & punjabi songs" While the other caption read, "When you're in your pjs & wanting to sleep but gotta get ready for shoot".
Check out the video here:
"Mimi' is considered as a turning point for Kriti as this is her strongest role till date with a central plot completely revolving around the actress.
Kriti will be reuniting with her 'Luka Chuppi' director Laxman Utekar and co-star Pankaj Tripathi for the film.
