
# Martin Keown slams Unai Emery's tactics as pressure grows on Arsenal manager

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:07:24+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/martin-keown-slams-unai-emerys-20827891)

Arsenal legend Martin Keown believes there are "problems all over the pitch" for Unai Emery after the Gunners let a lead slip for the fourth game in a row.
Another poor performance saw Arsenal lucky to leave Vitoria with a 1-1 draw as Shkodran Mustafi's header was cancelled out by an injury-time bicycle kick from Bruno Duarte.
It was the fourth time in 10 days that Arsenal have failed to hold onto a lead and Mustafi's 80th-minute effort was their first shot on target in a game where they toiled in the Portuguese rain.
And Keown has laid into Emery, believing the manager got his tactics wrong on Wednesday.
 
Keown told BT Sport: "There are problems all over the pitch. It can quickly be turned around. If I was involved in the weekend I'd go on the attack because we can't defend.
"We are in danger of losing some of the identity of the team built under Arsene Wenger. We cannot defend and have lost that attacking flavour.
"I think it's a personal thing of how you mark up in set-pieces. There are huge gaps. All they did was put a ball in and run through the hole. they could put a double decker bus through that! It's too simple.
 
"It's basic decision-making and they need to change."
Meanwhile, Emery remained defiant when asked about the possibility of being replaced by Jose Mourinho after seeing his Arsenal side struggle to earn a point in the Europa League.
The spectre of former Chelsea and Manchester United boss Mourinho has started to hang over Emery as reports continue to link the Portuguese to the Arsenal hot-seat.
The Gunners denied suggestions over the weekend that Mourinho had dined with Arsenal head of football Raul Sanllehi as pressure continues to build on Emery.
Mourinho's presence in the reverse fixture a fortnight ago ramped up the theories that he was a potential replacement should Emery lose his job.
Asked about the Mourinho links and the fan criticism aimed at him following recent performances, Emery simply replied: "I am the coach."
