
# Recipe from Joy of Cooking: Mushroom Confit

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:42:00+00:00**

Author: **CBS News**

Original: [CBS News](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/recipe-from-joy-of-cooking-mushroom-confit/)

The new, updated edition of one of the most popular cookbooks ever published, "Joy of Cooking" (Scribner) has been thoroughly revised and expanded by John Becker (great-grandson of the original author, Irma Rombauer) and his wife, Megan Scott.
They offered "CBS Sunday Morning" a few recipes from this 2019 edition.

        [Be sure to watch Serena Altschul's report on "Joy of Cooking" on "Sunday Morning" November 10!]
      
Of their Mushroom Confit they write:
"We first encountered mushroom confit in a Thomas Keller cookbook, and we've been tweaking the recipe for years. In our opinion, this is the perfect way to preserve wild mushrooms from a successful foraging venture. Serve as part of an antipasto spread or cheese board, or toss with pasta, serve over polenta, or pile on thickly sliced toasted bread."

        Makes about 6 cups
      
Toss together in a colander placed in the sink or over a bowl:2 pounds mushrooms, larger ones quartered, any tough stems removed1 tablespoon salt
Let sit for 1 hour. Gently press any excess moisture out of them (do not rinse). Set aside.
Preheat the oven to 200°F.
Combine in a large ovenproof saucepan or Dutch oven:2 cups olive oil2 shallots, thinly sliced4 garlic cloves, smashed4 sprigs thyme1 small sprig rosemary1 bay leaf1/2 teaspoon black pepper
Set the heat to medium and wait for the garlic to start faintly bubbling. Reduce the heat to maintain a low simmer and cook for 4 minutes. Remove from the heat and let the mixture steep for at least 15 minutes.
Add the mushrooms, cover, transfer to the oven, and bake for 1 hour. Remove from the oven, uncover, and stir in:1/4 cup sherry vinegar or white wine vinegar1 teaspoon smoked paprika
Cool completely before packing into a jar with a tight-fitting lid, making sure the mushrooms are completely submerged in the oil. Store refrigerated for up to 1 month.

        From "Joy of Cooking: 2019 Edition Fully Revised and Updated." Copyright 2019. Reprinted by permission of Scribner Books, of Simon & Schuster (a division of CBS).
      

              See also:
      

               For more info:
      
