
# The Radical Imagination of Angela Glover Blackwell

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Joshua Dudley**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshuadudley/2019/10/31/the-radical-imagination-of-angela-glover-blackwell/)

Big problems require big solutions, and in the new podcast Radical Imagination, Angela Glover Blackwell of PolicyLink talks with experts in various fields thinking about climate change, and extreme poverty and the radical imagination it takes to solve the problems that we face today.Your show is called Radical Imagination and one of your episodes is about universal basic income and your guest mentioned Dr. King and how he talked about it. Why does it have to take such a radical imagination to imagine something he imagined 50 years ago?
Angela Glover Blackwell: We have gotten very limited in our vision of social change in recent decades. One of many of the things that we'll talk about in future episodes is a federal job guarantee. That really shocks many people that the federal government could guarantee everyone a job who wanted one, but it actually happened during the 1930s with the WPA program. We talked in the first episode about open borders which again we’ve had in this nation at times when the nation felt that they needed workers.
So a lot of the things that I'm calling radical in the podcast are really things that have been thought of or have been done before. What I'm trying to do with the podcast is help people to think big enough so that we can begin to provide the kind of initiatives and programs and ideas that will help us to build a fully inclusive society. I think we have to snap people out of their complacency of either pushing back on ideas that are not inclusive at all or tinkering around the edges of reform when we need big bold ideas.

        Can you tell me a little bit about your background?
      
AGB: For the past 20 years I have been the founder and CEO of Policy Link, a national research and action institute, advancing racial and economic equity. Before that, I was a senior vice president of the Rockefeller Foundation. I've been an organizer, a public interest lawyer, and I ran a local community-building organization. I've stepped down as CEO and I'm the founder and resident. We have a wonderful new CEO named Michael McAfee doing a good job of leading PolicyLink, and I'm using my time to explore the edges of policy work and to think about the ideas that really ought to be fueling change in the future.

        Well, that's wonderful. We used to have a president who was a community organizer.
      
AGB: I knew that president! My organization worked with him on several initiatives, one was to try to get more grocery stores in underserved communities. We helped to launch the Healthy Food Financing Initiative that now has hundreds of programs in places all over the country that are providing access to fresh fruits and vegetables that were not there before. We also worked with the administration to launch the Promise Neighborhoods Program inspired by the Harlem Children's Zone. It looks at poor communities that have schools that aren't serving the children well and developing the multiple of wraparound services that are needed. We were also part of a small group to talk with the President about inequality.

        Do you tend to focus on income inequality between the wealthiest individuals and the poorest or also between black and white families?
      
AGB: What policy link has been concerned with is what we call the extreme inequality that's really hollowing out the middle class and baking in poverty. One of the things that are worrisome is at a time when we're experiencing shifting demographics and rapidly becoming a nation in which the majority will be people of color by 2044, many of those who will be left behind will be among the very people who are going to determine the future of the nation. Entrenched toxic inequality is threatening the very people who are going to be the future.

        I’m concerned about young people not interested enough to vote in our next election.
      
AGB: I think that it's early yet to be predicting that this won't be a very engaged electorate. We have to be concerned about putting out ideas that can capture the imagination of young people that speak directly to the issues that they're concerned about and offer solutions that don't sound like the same old thing which is one of the reasons for Radical Imagination.
I predict this presidential cycle is going to have a much more substantive debate around the issues that are plaguing so many people these days. People are looking for meaningful solutions.

        One of your episodes is about reparations. That can’t be an easy thing to talk about.
      
AGB: The reparations question doesn’t have an obvious implementation strategy, but we are having a more robust and honest informed conversation about race than we ever have. With the 1619 Project at the New York Times and many other things, I think the general population is understanding more about the history.
Some of the horrible things that have happened with police shootings and other racial issues have caused people to wonder whether we ever going to get this right. This is a moment when race is more front and center and a time when people have more historical background. Now is the time to have a conversation that looks at reparations, acknowledges the atrocity of slavery, but creates real pathways for people going forward.

        Do you think the disagreement amongst the Democratic candidates is healthy?
      
AGB: I'm not seeing a lot of disagreement on the Democratic side or the Republican side which is why I think it's good to put forward big ideas so we have a standard to hold people against. We want people to have access to the healthcare they need, job opportunities, and community support. We need to have a vision of where we're going and measure people's ideas against those visions.

        You have a future episode about water equity. What is that?
      
AGB: It’s about areas like Newark where people don’t have access to safe drinking water and that is something that many people have the luxury of taking for granted. Because it is so limited we really need to be thinking about human rights of water, which California has actually declared, and put money into making sure there is freshwater for communities that haven't had it. We call that water equity.

        How do you approach these issues when talking with people who use the free market as a measurement?
      
AGB: We need to have standards in the nation in terms of what the things the government needs to be responsible for and what we can expect the markets to take care of. We find that people feel that they don’t have the kind of say that they should over things that are very important.

        What did you think of the 1619 Project?
      
AGB: It was well done and needed and thousands and thousands of people were reading it. When I tried to get a copy the New York Times was out of them and were overwhelmed with requests, but teachers were getting them for their classes.
It’s an extraordinary moment in the history of the nation in terms of taking time to educate ourselves about something that actually defines the nation. Slavery predated the founding of the nation and for so many people to be so ignorant about that history, both in terms of what happened in slavery, and the legacy of how it continues into the wealth gap and mass incarceration, etc.
We have so much to overcome that this is in many ways a drop in the bucket, but it's a big drop in the bucket and I think that lots of people have had their curiosity sparked and they're now doing their own digging. I'm teaching a class at UC Berkeley on race, class and American cities, and many of the students have expressed how important it is for them to begin to understand the history and the legacy of the way race has been treated in this nation, and what it has to do with who the nation is now and what it is we need to do to overcome it and move forward.

        How can we develop a radical imagination of our own?
      
AGB: I think the first thing that people have to do is ask “who do we want to be” as a nation. How do we want to live, how do we want others to be able to benefit and to reach their full potential?
If we could just stop and ask that, the things that we would come up with won't sound that radical at all. It will mean everybody has access to education and opportunities that they need, that our communities will be safe, that the resources of the nation will be available to people so that they can reach their full potential. It only seems radical because we are stuck in our ignorance. We are stuck in fear and stinginess and think that full inclusion is a zero-sum game, but equity which is the way I talk about full inclusion just produces more. When we invest in those who are being left behind, when we invest in those who are going to be the future, we create more. Let's think about what we need to have in place for everybody to thrive and then move toward the solutions that provide that. That may feel radical, at first, but what I would love is for that to become the norm.

        Why do you think you’re so optimistic?
      
AGB: A big part of it is that I have spent my entire adult life working for social change and I have met so many committed people. I have seen people sacrifice and build relationships and put their lives on the line and develop beautiful ways to be able to create pathways to full inclusion. Even as I see all that’s wrong and ugly, I do see a path forward that people are building together with others to create a nation that can live up to all of the glorious words that have been talked about. And the people who are doing that will create that world.
