
# Angelina Jolie, 'The Eternals' cast evacuate set after bomb scare

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:56:25+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2094727/4-angelina-jolie-eternals-cast-evacuate-set-bomb-scare/)

Hollywood star Angelina Jolie and other cast members from Marvel’s upcoming film The Eternals got a bit of a scare when a bomb was reportedly found on set this week.
Multiple media outlets reported that production of the project was halted when the film’s crew found an unidentified object in the near vicinity, confirmed E! News.
“We have learnt that an unidentified object was found on the set where 2nd unit filming was taking place,” E! News wrote. “Per safety protocol, the area was inspected and deemed safe, and production resumed. No cast was present but the crew was asked to clear the area while the inspection occurred.”
The filming was taking place on an island that was previously used as a German military base during the Second World War. Jolie is  shooting the project alongside A-listers Richard Madden, Kumail Nanjiani, Brian Tyree Henry and Salma Hayek.
“It was obviously terrifying – the bomb could have been there for decades untouched but who knows what might have happened if it was disturbed,” an insider told The Sun. “Some of the biggest stars in the world were on set and nobody was taking any chances. Fortunately, experts dealt with it.”
Jolie has had a successful run of films this year, including starring in the newly released Maleficent: Mistress of Evil where she returns as the misunderstood horned character.
However, it seems like the Disney’s queen of darkness has had a slow first week, regardless of it being a $185 million film, opening with a disappointing $36 million, according to the Los Angeles Times.
On the personal front, Jolie recently opened up about her high-profile divorce from Troy actor Brad Pitt. The former Hollywood duo abruptly parted ways in 2016, after two years of marriage and over a decade together. The Eternals is slated for release late next year.
