
# Unfriended: Australian MP Andrew Wilkie calls biocops on Facebook

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:06:00+00:00**

Author: **Aimee Chanthadavong**

Original: [ZDNet](https://www.zdnet.com/article/facebooks-floral-arrangements-to-tasmanian-mps-quarantined-by-biosecurity-tasmania/)


        While it was an attempt to spread festive cheer, Facebook's floral arrangements ended up breaching Tasmanian biosecurity laws.
      
Tasmanian federal MP Andrew Wilkie has had to zip up a floral arrangement he received from Facebook in a quarantine bag after it was found to be in breach of Tasmanian biosecurity laws. According to Wilkie, the flowers were an "unprompted promotional floral arrangement" sent by Facebook on Monday, and he was "very concerned" that the delivery had not been given the all clear by Biosecurity Tasmania.  "It arrived [on Monday] by Australia Post and was apparently sent to all Tasmanian Federal MPs and Senators," he told ZDNet. "It immediately sparked concerns about implications for the Tasmanian environment and the likelihood of it being a serious breach of Tasmania's tough but entirely warranted biosecurity laws. "My office immediately contacted Biosecurity Tasmania who were very concerned that the arrangement had not been quarantine cleared and likely contained live seeds and the possibility of serious pests and diseases. I was very pleased to see Biosecurity Tasmania responded quickly and professionally."
See also: Facebook data privacy scandal: A cheat sheet (TechRepublic)Wilkie made the announcement about the breach initially via a tweet. 
A Facebook spokesperson told ZDNet that it has reached out to Biosecurity Tasmania to "understand more about what happened here". "We sent an Australian native wreath to Mr Wilkie to spread some festive cheer and share information about a local business from his electorate that features in our 2019 Gift Guide. The Gift Guide celebrates regional small business owners and encourages Australians to buy to support regional communities for the holidays, especially now in this time when so many are experiencing drought," the spokesperson said.
'No such thing' as cyber warfare: Australia's head of cyber warfare  Warfare is warfare, espionage is internationally normal, and cyber is just one of a suite of potential capabilities for a military response, says Major General Marcus Thompson.US, UK, and Australia jointly request for Facebook to stop end-to-end encryption plans Trio call for Facebook to allow law enforcement to obtain lawful access to content in a readable and usable format.Facebook's Zuckerberg questioned on Libra, political ads, and online pornography The US House Committee on Financial Services Chairperson has called for policymakers to consider whether Facebook should be broken up.NZ Privacy Commissioner: Facebook knew what could be streamed on its platform John Edwards said digital platforms need to adapt to the jurisdictions in which they operate, and take steps to prevent their platform, and audience and technology, from being used in such a way as was seen in Christchurch.
