
# MLB Off-Season Preview: The Player Likeliest To Leave On All 30 Teams

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brett Knight**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brettknight/2019/11/02/mlb-free-agency-player-likeliest-to-leave/)

The endless possibilities of free agency can get so engaging that it’s easy to forget teams also have to worry about hanging on to what they have. When Gerrit Cole and Anthony Rendon are out there for the taking, who wants to worry about re-signing Logan Forsythe or navigating arbitration with Joc Pederson?But those are among the big decisions that will be facing teams as they head into the off-season. Here, before teams get to the addition part of the hot stove season, Forbes.com’s SportsMoney contributors highlight the likely subtractions across the majors.
Player Likeliest To Leave: The Braves could see an exodus this winter, with Brian McCann retiring; Josh Donaldson, Julio Teheran, Chris Martin, Billy Hamilton, Adeiny Hechavarria and Francisco Cervelli all perhaps hitting the market; and Luke Jackson, Nick Markakis and Ender Inciarte trade candidates. But Dallas Keuchel is almost certain to depart for greener pastures. Read more on the Braves’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Dan Schlossberg.
Player Likeliest To Leave: The Marlins almost certainly won’t pick up Starlin Castro’s $16 million club option. But they’d also love to trade Wei-Yin Chen if they can find a partner. Read more on the Marlins’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Wayne G. McDonnell Jr.
Player Likeliest To Leave: The Mets didn’t bother to move proactively with Zack Wheeler, and now he should field multi-year offers from elsewhere. The Mets hope elsewhere isn’t across town. Read more on the Mets’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jerry Beach.
Player Likeliest To Leave: The Phillies will be shopping at the high end of the third-base market, meaning Maikel Franco, who hasn’t improved despite ample opportunity, is likely on the way out. Read more on the Phillies’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Tony Blengino.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Fernando Rodney allowed a grand slam in Game 4 of the World Series, not to mention three walks and another hit as he retired only one batter. That, plus being 42 years old, makes him the most likeliest to leave. Read more on the Nationals’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Ari Kaplan.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Addison Russell will be shopped but seems a likely non-tender. His domestic violence suspension and disappointing season at the plate point toward a fresh start elsewhere. Read more on the Cubs’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Phil Rogers.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Kevin Gausman pitched decently after being claimed off waivers in August, but it wouldn’t make much financial sense for a smaller-market franchise to spend potentially eight figures on a middle reliever. Read more on the Reds’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor John Perrotto.
Player Likeliest To Leave: After posting a 2.39 ERA in 25 appearances for the Brewers after a trade deadline deal, Drew Pomeranz is likely to draw interest as he hits the open market for the first time. Expect the Brewers to be priced out. Read more on the Brewers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Andrew Wagner.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Even though the Pirates are likely to exercise Starling Marte’s option, it is no guarantee he will be on the 2020 opening-day roster. He should generate trade interest if the new GM decides to go into rebuilding mode. Read more on the Pirates’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor John Perrotto.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Marcell Ozuna may be gone, and whether Adam Wainwright returns is up to him. But if there’s one absolute lock to be on his way out of St. Louis, it’s Michael Wacha. Read more on the Cardinals’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Ryan Davis.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Even after some payroll-clearing trades, Jake Lamb and Steven Souza Jr. would likely make too much in arbitration to be brought back. Read more on the Diamondbacks’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jack Magruder.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Left-handed reliever Jake McGee is due $9 million in 2020 after an awful second half to 2019. Trading him is a priority. Read more on the Rockies’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jack Etkin.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Corey Seager and Joc Pederson, eligible for arbitration raises, could be trade candidates. Even so, Rich Hill and Hyun-Jin Ryu, particularly given their injury histories, appear to be the likeliest contributors to leave. Read more on the Dodgers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Anthony Witrado.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Wil Myers became the face of the franchise in 2017 when his contract was extended in a $87 million deal, which at the time was the largest in team history, but he’s been a disappointment since. He’s being shopped. Read more on the Padres’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jay Paris.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Farhan Zaidi got suckered into keeping Madison Bumgarner at the trade deadline. Now, the Giants must make a qualifying offer to Bumgarner and watch him go elsewhere so they can get compensation draft pick. Read more on the Giants’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Anthony Witrado.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Jonathan Villar is a versatile and valuable player who can help a team on offense and defense and with his speed, but the price may be too high for the Orioles. Read more on the Orioles’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jeff Seidel.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Unless he wants to take a considerable hometown discount, Rick Porcello is likely headed elsewhere. The Red Sox already have $79 million locked up in three starters—Chris Sale, David Price, Nathan Eovaldi—for 2020. Read more on the Red Sox’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Matt Kalman.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Didi Gregorius was not nearly as productive in his return from Tommy John surgery, and Gleyber Torres can take over at shortstop as the successor to Derek Jeter’s successor. Read more on the Yankees’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Larry Fleisher.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Eric Sogard was a nice trade-deadline pickup to fill in for the injured Joey Wendle and Brandon Lowe, but now the Rays have little need for him. Read more on the Rays’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Tom Layberger.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Clay Buchholz is likely gone—from the Blue Jays and perhaps the league—after face-planting in 2019. Ken Giles is another possible departure, as a sell-high trade chip. Read more on the Blue Jays’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jordan Horrobin.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Carlos Rodon has been unable to stay healthy, most recently seeing his 2019 season end with Tommy John surgery in May. He’s two years away from free agency but could be a non-tender candidate if the White Sox decides it’s time to invest elsewhere. Read more on the White Sox’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Phil Rogers.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Manager Terry Francona always preaches team-first, and it’s hard to erase the memory of Yasiel Puig, during a key late-season game at Minnesota, hitting a ground ball back to the pitcher and, instead of running to first, walking directly to the dugout. Read more on the Indians’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jim Ingraham.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Matthew Boyd has drawn interest, but if the Tigers really wanted to deal him, they probably would’ve done so at the trade deadline along with Nicholas Castellanos and Shane Greene. Read more on the Tigers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jared Wyllys.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Alex Gordon has had a long and distinguished career, but he’s nearing the end of the line. The Royals could use an upgrade at first base. Read more on the Royals’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Jack Magruder.
Player Likeliest To Leave: The Twins need pitching, but it may be too expensive to retain Jake Odorizzi, who could be a highly sought-after free agent. Read more on the Twins’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Steve Silverman.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Gerrit Cole is the easy answer, but the Astros will also likely non-tender Aaron Sanchez, who pitched six hitless innings in his first Houston start but then got injured. Read more on the Astros’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Dan Schlossberg.
Player Likeliest To Leave: The Angels seem more likely to exercise a $1 million buyout on Kole Calhoun than to pick up his $14 million club option after he slashed .232/.322/.424. Read more on the Angels’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Barry M. Bloom.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Blake Treinen experienced a steep fall this year as he went from lights-out closer to middle relief. The Athletics aren’t likely to spend up to $8 million to find out if he can still be effective. Read more on the Athletics’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor John Perrotto.
Player Likeliest To Leave: With Shed Long progressing, Dee Gordon becomes a movable piece who could bring back bullpen help. Read more on the Mariners’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Maury Brown.
Player Likeliest To Leave: Logan Forsythe and Hunter Pence will likely move on as free agents. Nomar Mazara, who has power upside but hasn’t progressed much the last three years and is starting to cost real money, could be trade bait. Read more on the Rangers’ off-season outlook from Forbes contributor Tony Blengino.
