
# The 20 Best Music Videos Of The 2010s

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:44:52+00:00**

Author: **Tom Breihan**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2063870/the-20-best-music-videos-of-the-2010s/franchises/2010s-in-review/)

In the very early days of this century, people would still sometimes watch music videos on television. MTV’s Total Request Live was in its halcyon era in 2000, and the show wouldn’t be cancelled until 2008. Meanwhile, YouTube debuted in 2005, changing the way everyone experienced the music video. So the 2010s are the first full decade in the online era of the music video — the time when you could pull up whatever you wanted, whenever you wanted.
Videos could’ve easily outlived their usefulness by now. Why would a label blow a whole lot of money on making a mini-movie for a song, knowing full well that people would have to type the song’s name into a search engine to find it? And yet the opposite has happened. Music videos have utterly dominated YouTube as the platform has found a central place in our lives. Almost all of the most-viewed YouTube videos of all time are music clips. And when a video goes viral, people probably see it more times than they would’ve done even in MTV’s dominant era. People watch videos over and over, on repeat. That didn’t happen when they were on TV.
At the end of 2012, the South Korean rapper PSY posted his “Gangnam Style” video on YouTube. That clip — dizzy, cartoonish, infectiously dumb — might’ve been the perfect YouTube video. It transcended language, culture, and platform. “Gangnam Style” was the first YouTube video to hit a billion views, and it made an international celebrity out of a guy who was barely known in his homeland beforehand. Not even MTV could’ve done that for PSY.
So music videos are fine. They’re a crucial way that musicians broadcast their images, capture imaginations, and put their work into context. Even as attention spans further atomize, we can still spare four minutes at a time to watch pop stars do silly shit on our phone or laptop screens. The following list is entirely subjective, and it probably looks nothing like yours. It is also completely and indisputably correct. Here are the decade’s best music videos.
A gory and absurdist Russian Rube Goldberg black comedy, told in reverse. Sometimes, you don’t even need context.
