
# Buy Tech Mahindra; target of Rs 900: ICICI Direct

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Broker Research**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/stocks/buy-tech-mahindra-target-of-rs-900-icici-direct-2-4609311.html)


        ICICI Direct's research report on Tech Mahindra
      
Tech Mahindra (TechM) reported a healthy performance on all fronts. The key highlights for the quarter were constant currency revenue growth of 4.1% QoQ (better than ours and Street estimates), record deal wins (increased 3.1x QoQ to US$1.5 billion) and growth in digital revenues (11.8% QoQ, 37.4% YoY). Digital now contributes 39.0% of overall revenues. The revenue beat was driven by the better-than-expected performance in the enterprise segment, which grew 4.8% sequentially.

        Outlook
      
Further, considering most margin headwinds being absorbed in FY20E, we believe FY21E could witness EBIT margin expansion to 14.3%. Hence, we maintain our BUY recommendation with a revised target price of Rs 900/share.

        
          For all recommendations report, click here
        
      

        
          Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts/broking houses/rating agencies on moneycontrol.com are their own, and not that of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.
        
      

        Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
        Read More
      
