
# Pak opposition rallies to remove Imran govt

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Agencies**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/news/world/pak-opposition-rallies-to-remove-imran-govt/articleshow/71859976.cms)

Tens of thousands of Pakistani opposition supporters rallied on Friday to demand the ouster of what they say is the illegitimate government of Prime Minister Imran Khan, warning of chaos if their demands were not met. The leader of the protest, hard-line cleric Maulana Fazlur Rehman, gave Khan a two-day ultimatum to resign, saying the "Gorbachev of Pakistan" must step down without testing the patience of peaceful protesters. The protest, in the capital Islamabad, is the first concerted opposition challenge that cricket star-turned-politician Khan has faced since he won a general election last year promising to end corruption and create jobs for the poor. It represents people's anger against Khan's administration as it struggles to quell simmering public anger over a faltering economy and double-digit inflation. Fazlur Rehman, the leader of Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam-Fazl, one of Pakistan's largest religious parties, is spearheading the protest with the support of the three main opposition parties - Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz, Pakistan People's Party, and Awami National Party. The opposition says the government is illegitimate and is being propped up by the military, which has ruled Pakistan for about half of its history and sets security and foreign policy. The military denies meddling in politics. Khan has dismissed the opposition calls to step down and the government has warned it will not tolerate chaos on the streets. "There is an undeclared martial law here," said protester Habib ur Rehman, 35. Security is tight in Islamabad with the government and diplomatic sector - just a few kilometres from the rally site - sealed off, roads blocked by barriers of shipping containers. Schools are closed, public transport suspended and internet services interrupted in some areas, a service provider said. Families struggle to identify train fire victimsRelatives of victims of a Pakistani train fire that killed 74 people struggled on Friday to identify their loved ones, with most of the victims burned beyond recognition and needing DNA testing to determine who they are, an official said. Fire engulfed three carriages of the train after a gas canister that passengers were using to cook breakfast exploded, triggering the worst disaster on Pakistan’s accident-plagued railway system in nearly 15 years. Jameel Ahmad, a senior official in Rahim Yar Khan district in Punjab province, where the blazing train came to a stop, said 57 of the victims were very badly burned. “Relatives of several people came to identify them but failed,” Ahmad told Reuters. -REUTERS
