
# Cancel Grab after 3 minutes and now pay a fee, Thailand

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:11:59+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bangkok**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bangkok/news/cancel-grab-after-3-minutes-and-now-pay-a-fee-thailand/)

Thailand’s dominant ride-share service has rolled out fees for cancelations, meaning customers will pay up to THB150 (US$5) if they book and bail.  
To compensate drivers “fairly for their time and effort” – and discourage passengers from canceling – Grab says the new fee, which came into effect Monday, depends on how soon one cancels after booking.
Drivers “waste fuel and miss out on earnings they could have gotten from taking another job” when passengers cancel at the last minute or don’t show up, Grab said in an earlier announcement of the policy, which applies to all of its services but for GrabFood, GrabExpress and GrabFresh. The fee for most services in Bangkok is THB30.
Customers will be charged if they cancel after three minutes have passed and the driver has already traveled over 500 meters since taking the job. Customers will also be fined if they do not show up at the pick-up point. Those without GrabPay accounts will be asked to pay by cash on their next ride.
The fees vary by locale. In Bangkok, they rise from THB30 and go up to THB100 or THB150 for premium services such as Luxe Advance or GrabDrive. Grab says 100% of the fees go to its drivers.
In “all cities that GrabBike is available” (certainly not Bangkok, *cough* *cough*) the fee is THB10 for a moto.

        Related:
      

        Grab driver accused of raping Thai teen charged with sexual assault
      

        Transport chief walks back Bangkok taxi fare hike vow
      

        Bangkok taxi fares set to rise, Grab cars to go legal
      
