
# Lady Gaga talks that Oscars performance with Bradley Cooper and admits faking romance

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:53:53+00:00**

Author: **Vicki Newman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/vicki-newman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/lady-gaga-talks-oscars-performance-20825682)

Lady Gaga has admitted that Oscars performance with Bradley Cooper was all for attention.
The singer set tongues wagging when she performed a song from movie A Star Is Born with her co-star at the Oscars earlier this year, but they faked their feelings for each other on purpose.
At the time, Bradley was engaged to model Irina Shayk, although they later split.
Some people blamed the break up on Gaga's swooning performance with Bradley as they sang Shallow together.
Gaga looked at her co-star with love and admiration in her eyes and rested her head on his shoulder as they sat together at a piano for the intimate performance.
They denied there was anything going on and said they were simply great actors.
But now, Gaga, whose real name is Stefani Germanotta, has admitted she did it all for attention.
She opened up in an interview with Oprah Winfrey for Elle magazine.
When asked about the pressure to constantly outdo herself, Gaga looked back on her career, saying she didn't think the meat dress she famously wore would be as shocking as it was and addressed her much-discussed performance with Bradley, who played her love interest in the film.
Oprah told Gaga she'd recently discussed the attention the performance got with Bradley and that he told her he wouldn't have been able to look Gaga in the eye while they sat at the piano if the rumours were true.
Gaga said: "I mean, we made a love story. For me, as a performer and as an actress, of course we wanted people to believe that we were in love. And we wanted people to feel that love at the Oscars.
"We wanted it to go right through the lens of that camera and to every television that it was being watched on. And we worked hard on it, we worked for days. We mapped the whole thing out - it was orchestrated as a performance."
When asked to clarify if she was trying to evoke the reaction they got, Gaga added: "It did. In truth, when we talked about it, we went, 'Well, I guess we did a good job!'"

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
