
# Nate Diaz snubs Jorge Masvidal's handshake at UFC 244 weigh-in - and Conor McGregor is not impressed

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:32:52+00:00**

Author: **Martin Domin, https://www.facebook.com/mirrorfighting**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/other-sports/mma/nate-diaz-snubs-jorge-masvidals-20795001)

Conor McGregor was left less than impressed with Jorge Masvidal's attempt to shake hands with Nate Diaz at the UFC 244 weigh-in.
The pair clash at Madison Square Garden tonight with the winner being awarded the Bad Motherf***** belt which has been specially designed.
And after both men had completed their duties at the ceremonial weigh-in on Friday, Masvidal stuck out his hand only for Diaz to turn away.
Unimpressed, McGregor took to Twitter to say: "This is not a bad motherf***** weigh in.
 
"I'm sad they didn’t get to shake hands up there like they wanted to and tried to. It was so sad seeing this.
"It's like a love story up there. OMG it's The Notebook. Now get out that f****** cheque book and donate to my charity and the real bad man's back."
McGregor plans to return to the UFC on January 18 against Donald Cerrone having not fought since he was choked out by lightweight champion Khabib Nurmagomedov.
He then wants to fight the winner of Masvidal's clash with Diaz, with the former open to facing the Irishman.
"Conor's done amazing things in this sport, and I always give – not always – but I try to give credit where credit is due," he said.
"He’s got two belts, he's got the fastest knockout with the title, he’s done a lot of great things, you know. But as of late, he hasn't competed in a while.
"I'm just hearing things; I’m not seeing. If he comes back and fights, fights whoever he fights and wins, and wants to fight me, of course I'm going to fight that guy over everybody just like I’m going to fight Nate, because Nate’s a huge dog.
"Conor's the same; he’s a fighter. He might not be the toughest guy, but he’s a hell of a fighter, and he brings in millions of dollars, so of course I'm going to fight that guy over all these other bums. It’s a no-brainer, man. But is he fighting? I don’t know."
