
# tix on sale: Dan Deacon, Jenny Hval, Mura Masa, La Roux, Sudan Archives, more

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:55:00+00:00**

Author: **BrooklynVegan Staff**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/tix-on-sale-dan-deacon-jenny-hval-mura-masa-la-roux-sudan-archives-more/)


        ON SALE AT 10 AM
      
Tickets for the Fiddlehead show at Rough Trade go on sale at 10 AM.
Tickets for the Algiers show at Saint Vitus go on sale at 10 AM.
Tickets for the Dan Deacon show at Brooklyn Steel go on sale at 10 AM.
Tickets for the Jenny Hval shows at National Sawdust go on sale at 10 AM.
Tickets for the Mura Masa show at Brooklyn Steel go on sale at 10 AM.
Tickets for the Anna of the North show at Bowery Ballroom go on sale at 10 AM.

        ON SALE AT NOON
      
Tickets for the Beach Bunny show at MHOW go on sale at noon.
Tickets for the La Roux show at Brooklyn Steel go on fan presale at noon.
Tickets for the Sudan Archives show at Bowery Ballroom go on sale at noon. Her Public Records show is sold out.

        ON SALE NOW
      
Tickets for the “last ever” Poison Idea shows at Gold Sounds and The Kingsland are on sale now.
Tickets for the DaBaby show at Terminal 5 are on sale now.
New York rap legend CL Smooth plays a hometown show on November 24 at SOB’s (tickets).
Registration for the Verified Fan Presale for the Sturgill Simpson and Tyler Childers show at Madison Square Garden is open through Sunday (11/3) at 10 PM.
—
BrooklynVegan is proud to present J. Robbins of Jawbox at Saint Vitus on 12/6 (tickets).
BrooklynVegan is proud to present The Movielife‘s holiday show at Rough Trade on 12/29 (tickets).
SCREENING NEXT ON THE BROOKLYNVEGAN-PRESENTED MUSIC DRIVEN SERIES AT NITEHAWK:11/6: Slayer’s The Repentless Trilogy at Nitehawk Prospect Park11/13: The Music Driven program at Nitehawk’s Shorts Festival at Nitehawk Williamsburg11/21: Depeche Mode: SPIRITS in the Forest at Nitehawk Prospect Park
ENTER TO WIN TICKETS TO:11/7: King Diamond, Uncle Acid & the Deadbeats and Idle Hands at Kings Theatre11/16: Karen O & Danger Mouse’s Lux Prima at Kings Theatre
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT BROOKLYN BOWL12/4-12/7: The Hold Steady “Massive Nights” holiday shows12/29: Deer Tick with Robert Ellis1/4: The Felice Brothers
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT WARSAW:12/5-12/6: The Menzingers and Tigers Jaw with Culture Abuse4/23-4/24: Current 93
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT LE POISSON ROUGE:11/5: Fruit Bats11/19: Pigface11/22: The Low Anthem12/5: Thurston Moore12/6: Bedouine12/13: Pile12/20: Kevin Barnes & Christina Schneider
SOME UPCOMING SHOWS AT CAPITOL THEATRE:12/11: Yola12/13-12/14: “Home for the Holidays” Celebrating Jerry Garcia12/31: Trombone Shorty & Orleans Avenue2/55: Calexico and Iron & Wine

        MORE UPCOMING SHOWS
      
Nick Offerman’s “All Rise” tour hits Beacon Theatre 11/3 (tickets)
Karen O and Danger Mouse bring the songs of their new album Lux Prima to Kings Theatre 11/14 (tickets).
King Diamond, Uncle Acid & the Deadbeats, and Idle Hands play Kings Theatre 11/16 (tickets are on sale, and you can enter to win a pair).
Bon Iver & TU Dance bring Come Through to Kings Theatre 12/4-12/5 (tickets)
Ricky Gervais brings his new stand-up tour, SuperNature, to Hulu Theater on 5/14 (sold out) and 5/15 (tickets)

        ON SALE NEXT WEEK
      
R&B singer Dijon is playing Bowery Ballroom on February 6. Tickets go on sale Friday, November 8 at 10 AM with an artist presale starting Tuesday (11/5) at 1 PM.
—-
Browse our “Tickets On Sale” tag for more recently announced NYC shows.
Follow BrooklynVegan on FACEBOOK, TWITTER and INSTAGRAM.
Browse our NYC Concert Calendar for shows happening today and every day – comedy shows, heavy metal concerts (courtesy of our heavy metal blog), and free shows included.
Sign up for our weekly e-newsletter.
