
# Adriana LaGrange: It's surprising CBE can't find savings in a $1.2B budget

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:04:57+00:00**

Author: **Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/opinion/columnists/adriana-lagrange-its-surprising-cbe-cant-find-savings-in-a-1-2b-budget)


        'It would be an understatement for me to say I am concerned,' says Alberta's education minister
      
I’ll admit, when the Calgary Board of Education released a statement claiming that it may have to eliminate staffing positions to balance its budget, I was surprised.
I was surprised that a school board that has an operating budget of $1.2 billion (just over a third of the City of Calgary’s overall budget) to service 130,000 students was unable to find efficiencies in its overhead. As a former board chair myself, this leads me to believe that the CBE trustees need to look at their own internal operations with a critical eye and address those problems.
The reality is, CBE’s fiscal record is one that all Calgarians should be concerned about. For several years, the board has projected significant deficits, while ending the year with a significant surplus, often above $10 million. To me, this demonstrates an inability to accurately budget their funding, which in turn may have prevented millions of dollars from flowing to the classroom.
CBE also has a history of inaccurate bookkeeping. In 2018, a provincial audit of the board found that CBE had made a $9.1-million accounting error. According to the financial review, the board recorded these as instructional costs, when in reality they were costs incurred for office space. The board’s public reaction was that they were “happy to comply” and that the “operational review didn’t raise any substantial issues.” I would say that inaccurately recording $9.1 million is a substantial issue.
Diving into office space concerns, in 2010-11 the board locked themselves into an expensive, 20-year lease that they are financially unable to exit. The total remaining lease payments are valued at $144,582,000, an average of over $12 million per year. Of this, almost $36 million is interest. This $144.5 million that CBE continues to owe on its lease far exceeds the valuation of the building, which is valued at $139,510,672. To be clear, CBE is using taxpayer dollars to pay for rental costs of its district office that are far beyond what Calgarians should expect a public body to be paying. Every dollar that goes into expensive leases, accounting errors and budgeting problems is one less dollar to spend in the classroom.
It would be an understatement for me to say I am concerned.
I expect all school divisions to prioritize their students as they make fiscal decisions. When boards across Alberta, such as Fort Vermilion School Division, are finding efficiencies in their overhead and looking at ways to direct as many dollars as possible into classrooms, there is no reason why Alberta’s largest and most financially sound board can’t do the same.
Albertans overwhelmingly elected our government to bring balance to the provincial budget and to start living within our means. The reality is the cost of the education system in Alberta was growing faster than enrolment growth and inflation. In fact, over the past 15 years, overall costs have gone up by 80 per cent while enrolment and inflation accounts for only 55 per cent, and our outcomes haven’t improved. This is unsustainable. All public bodies have a role to get spending under control — that is true for the government of Alberta and every school board.
I expect all boards to follow suit and help us get Alberta’s public finances in order. Gone are the days where we can sign unfavourable lease agreements, make accounting errors and not be laser-focused in our budgeting to direct every possible dollar to the classroom. It’s never easy to trim the fat and clean up administrative costs, but, as a former board chair, I firmly believe that the majority of funding for school boards should be directed to the classroom.
If CBE needs help, we stand ready to assist. I am certain that if they look hard enough, they will be able to find efficiencies in their $1.2-billion budget while still ensuring that the 130,000 students they service, and those who instruct them, do not bear the brunt of changes.

        Adriana LaGrange is Alberta’s minister of education.
      
