
# Emily Maitlis shames Piers Morgan for Susanna Reid 'pay gap' before 'entertainer' jibe

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:10:39+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emily-maitlis-shames-piers-morgan-20815447)

Emily Maitlis turned the tables on Piers Morgan today by asking him to reveal his 'salary gap' with Susanna Reid.
The Newsnight presenter put the Good Morning Britain host in his place when asked to comment on the "scandalous gender unequal behaviour" at the BBC.
This comes as Samira Ahmed takes the BBC to an employment tribunal after finding out her male colleague was being paid considerably more for "a very similar job".
The Radio 4 presenter says she was paid £440 for each episode of the audience feedback show Newswatch that she presented, while Jeremy Vine earned £3,000 for each episode of Points Of View.
On today's GMB, Piers was left red-faced when Emily retorted: "You could tell us the disparity between you two if you want?"
Susanna remained silent, while her co-host insisted they don't know what each other earns.
When Emily continued to dig and asked if ITV was "into transparency", Piers replied: "We're not the BBC. You don't pay our salary."
Later on, the Newsnight host sent a savage jibe Piers' way by labelling him an "entertainer", but claiming Susanna does "news".
Her dig relates to the BBC's argument against Samira, who said her work is not comparable to Jeremy's and that Points Of View is an entertainment show while Newswatch is a news programme.
Samira has questioned why she took home just one-sixth of Jeremy's pay, despite the similarities between both programmes.
Speaking on GMB, Emily said: "I do think one of the things its thrown up is between news and entertainment. You’re an entertainer Piers."
Gesturing towards Susanna, she swiftly added: "We do news."
Furious Piers shouted: "Are you looking at her when you say that? The cheek of it. You can be a bit theatrical yourself, love."
Samira has questioned why she took home just one-sixth of Jeremy's pay, despite the similarities between both of the programmes.
In a statement released ahead of her first day of the tribunal on October 28, Samira said: "I love my job on Newswatch despite it being difficult and challenging.
"On the back of my BBC ID card are written the BBC values which include 'we respect each other and celebrate our diversity' and 'we take pride in delivering quality and value for money'.
"I just ask why the BBC thinks I am worth only a sixth of the value of the work of a man for doing a very similar job."
However, the Beeb disagrees that the two jobs are comparable because of the news and entertainment divide.
In a statement, a spokesman for the corporation said: "The BBC is committed to equal pay. Points of View is an entertainment programme with a long history and is a household name.
"Newswatch - while an important programme - isn't.
"Samira was paid the same as her male predecessor when she began presenting Newswatch.
"Gender has not been a factor in levels of pay for Points Of View. News and entertainment are very different markets and pay across the media industry reflects this."

        *Good Morning Britain airs weekdays on ITV at 6am
      
