
# Belgian brothers, DJs Dimitri Vegas and Like Mike, promise to light up your night with their beats

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sowmya Rajaram**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/belgian-brothers-djs-dimitri-vegas-and-like-mike-promise-to-light-up-your-night-with-their-beats/articleshow/71943331.cms)

Dimitri Vegas and Like Mike are coming to namma ooru on a high. Having recently topped 2019’s Top 100 DJs poll by DJ Mag, the Belgian duo will continue the party here, as part of a multi-city Sunburn Arena tour. Known for their stage presence, the brothers are thrilled at returning to the top spot (after 2015). Vegas says as much: “Winning it the first time was such a whirlwind. Since then, we’ve been hard in the studio, busy on the road, creating some incredible projects.” Mike adds: “It means the world to us to know the fans are supporting us.” An interview: How has your music changed and evolved after all these years? LM: We’ve always been an open book when it comes to our sound. We never wanted to be stuck in one lane. You can see this from the range of people we’ve been working with: from Snoop Dogg to Wiz Khalifa, Era Istrefi, Gucci Mane, Hans Zimmer, Paris Hilton and more recently our summer anthem Instagram with David Guetta, Afro Bros, Daddy Yankee and Natti Natasha. These are just some of the amazing artists we’ve made music with recently. What kind of working relationship do you share, as brothers? DV: We work separately on ideas and then come together on what we both agree is worth expanding on. We have our own ideas and that keeps our sound fresh. We’re always exploring new avenues, styles and techniques. Mike, you’ve had solo releases as well. How does your solo work fit in with your work with your brother? LM: My solo material is in a different lane to what Dimitri and I do as a duo. It’s just me in the studio taking a different approach to my creativity. The music I make is very personal, which we both agree doesn’t quite fit the DV&LM project. Please share your biggest learnings and challenges in your musical journey so far. DV: Keeping pushing – the road is long and there are many bumps but if you keep going, eventually success will come to you. LM: Be honest and true to yourself – don’t fool yourself and try to be what you’re not. What was it like working with Wiz Khalifa? What are your other favourite collaborations? LM: Insane! We both have mad respect for Wiz and what he does as an artist. He was somebody we both wanted to work with for a long while. DV: Hans Zimmer was another. It’s no secret I’m a huge comic and film fan, even pursuing my own career in Hollywood alongside the music, but to link with a composer/producer of his renowned status, on a movie franchise such as Pirates of the Caribbean, was a true honour. Yes, both of you have also worked in a feature film. How do all your creative endeavours overlap? LM: Music is still our number one love! It’s what we’ve dreamt of doing our whole lives and what excites us the most, but expanding into other projects is a lot of fun. DV: Yeah, music is our passion, and having the opportunity to spread into other areas such as movies is a real blessing. I’ve always wanted to explore acting and get into film. Doing it alongside, continuing to be a DJ and producer,running our record label, promoting our own arena parties and everything else, is incredible. There’s a lot of electronic music out there today. How do you stay different and relevant? DV: Streaming has made it easier to get heard but also easier to release music, so there is a lot more out there nowadays. We make sure to keep music in our sets that only we have, some special edits or remixes. We put hours into preparing the music for our shows so the fans get something new and leave with a mind-blowing experience every time. What are you looking forward to about performing in India? LM: The fans! The last time the crowd was freaking crazy with energy. India you know how to party and we can’t wait to do it all over again with you! Attend the gig at Ozone Urbana, NH44, Devanahalli, from 7pm to 8.15pm, November 7, `499 onwards, bookmyshow.com To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’
