
# Motorcycle racer Afridza Munandar dies aged 20 after Asia Talent Cup crash

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:12:50+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/02/motorcycle-racer-afridza-munandar-dies-after-asia-talent-cup-crash)

Tributes have been paid to motorcycle racer Afridza Munandar after the Indonesian was killed in a crash at Malaysia’s Sepang International Circuit on Saturday.
The 20-year-old went down at turn 10 on the first lap of the Idemitsu Asia Talent Cup, a feeder competition for MotoGP. Munandar received medical attention at the side of the track and was then taken to hospital in Kuala Lumpur, but died as a result of his injuries.
British rider Cal Crutchlow tweeted: “Really sad news. Thoughts are with Afridza and all his family and friends at this time. Rest in peace.” The defending world MotoGP champion, Marc Márquez, said it was a “sad day for motorcycling. RIP Afridza”.
Marquez’s Spanish compartiot, Álex Rins, tweeted: “Our sport can be very tough sometimes. Rest in peace Afridza Munandar. Our hearts are with his family and friends
The race was stopped immediately with a red flag and then cancelled, although racing is expected to resume at the circuit on Sunday after Munandar’s fellow riders voted to continue.
“Any rider who subsequently chooses not to race has our full support and understanding,” organisers said. “The race will be in memory of Afridza Munandar.”
Munandar was one of the championship contenders heading into this weekend’s finale of the 2019 IATC, having recorded two wins and four podium finishes this season.
