
# Erling Haaland in no hurry to leave RB Salzburg, admits Alf-Inge Haaland

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:44:12+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/erling-haaland-in-no-hurry-to-leave-rb-salzburg-admits-alf-inge-haaland?utm_medium=rss)


        Erling Haaland’s rise this season has been phenomenal which has seen him linked with a move but his father Alf-Inge has admitted that no move will take place. The teenager only signed for RB Salzburg last season but already has Real Madrid, Manchester United and a few others chasing after him.
      
With a hattrick in his first Champions League game, Erling Haaland had the world’s curiosity but with seven goals in four Champions League games the Norwegian has the world’s attention. To make things even better, the young RB Salzburg striker is barely 19-year-old and is now being touted as the heir to the Lionel Messi/Cristiano Ronaldo throne alongside Kylian Mbappe and Jadon Sancho.
That alone shows Haaland’s rise and it’s also why he has been heavily linked with a move away. Reports indicate that the likes of Real Madrid, Manchester United, Barcelona, Manchester City, PSG, Juventus, and many others are all keen on a move with Salzburg quoting around €65 million. However, in an interview, Haaland’s father Alf-Inge went on to admit that his son is in no hurry to leave.
“He is at Red Bull, a fantastic club playing Champions League so in a way he is in no hurry. Red Bull have shown from the past that they are a ‘middle step’ club, and if they are going to recruit players in the future they can’t put a stupid price tag on the players because nobody would want to go there. At one stage he would like to play in the Premier League, but when that will happen, I don’t know,” Alf-Inge told talkSPORT
"It is a very tough league. Up to now he is ahead of the stage we thought he would be at. He is built for the Premier League, but whether that will happen now or at a later stage, we don’t know."
The 19-year-old striker joined RB Salzburg after spending two years honing his skills at Molde where current Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer boss has played a big role. The Red Devils are looking to bring Haaland into their squad and helped him improve his talent with the teenager himself attesting as to what Solskjaer has done for him and Alf-Inge added on to that.
“The thing Ole looked at when he took him was that striker’s touch in front of goal and the way he scores goals. If you can also have the physical thing next to it, it is a good combination. But you know, he’s had good games and bad games. He is still young and learning a lot. I think he probably would be a good player to work with for many managers.
"He is quite pacy and a talent, but still a raw talent. So we will cross our fingers and hope it goes well, and at the moment it is going well for him,” concluded the former Leeds United midfielder.
