
# Sports ministry takes SGFI to task

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:33:49+00:00**

Author: **Sabi Hussain**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/more-sports/others/sports-ministry-takes-sgfi-to-task/articleshow/71862081.cms)

NEW DELHI: The sports ministry has show-caused the School Games Federation of India (SGFI), headed by double Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, for gross mismanagement and negligence during the Pacific School Games in Adelaide, Australia in December 2017, an unsanctioned event.
TOI has also learnt the ministry is contemplating revoking the recognition of the SGFI for its failure to run the Agra-based institution in a professional manner and the same has been communicated to its top bosses. "An order in this direction will be passed soon," a source informed.
Coming down heavily on the SGFI, the ministry has rapped the federation for not providing complete information related to the event when a ministerial-level inquiry is still underway into the matter. A 187-member Indian contingent had participated in the event, which was neither recognised by the International School Sports Federation (ISSF) nor sanctioned by the sports ministry and Sports Authority of India (SAI). The SGFI, which selected the contingent, was also held responsible by the SAI for the death of a 15-year-old girl footballer from Delhi, Nitisha Negi, who died after being swept away by a huge wave at the Glenelg Beach in Adelaide.
The ministry, in its latest communication to the SGFI, has specifically pointed out the roles of federation PRO, Gaurav Dixit, and his wife Aakansha Thapak - whom the ministry termed an "unauthorised person".
The ministry also questioned the roles of the chef-demission and all the general manager/manager(s) associated with the Games and whether they had obtained necessary NOCs from their respective state departments to travel in an official capacity to Adelaide.
TOI contacted SGFI secretary general Rajesh Mishra, who blamed the ministry for resorting to arm-twisting and according it a step-motherly treatment. He said the federation president will decide on taking any action against individuals during the upcoming AGM.
