
# Guide to the perfect nighttime beauty routine

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Antara Bose**

Original: [Times of Oman](https://timesofoman.com/article/2186430/HI/Style/Guide-to-the-perfect-nighttime-beauty-routine)

Mornings are busy and sitting down to go through an entire skincare routine can sound pretty challenging. Hence, we’ve devised the perfect nighttime routine, so that you simply wake up glowing (#wokeuplikethis for real). A good beauty routine is essential at night as this is when your skin also regenerates itself, and using the right products will aid your skin in that journey of regeneration. It’s also important to ensure that you use the products in the right order. Feeling a little unsure about that? Here’s what you need to know.1 Makeup removerMicellar water is great, but if you don’t have something that is specifically labelled ‘makeup remover’, fret not. Regular petroleum jelly works just as well. Though it’s a common practice to use the cleanser as a makeup remover, sometimes it’s just not enough. If you have heavy makeup on, you’ll need something more oil-based. It’s also a good idea to invest in a separate eye makeup remover for those waterproof liners and mascaras.2 Cleanser
Follow makeup removal with a hydrating cleanser. It helps take off any residual dirt, grime, or makeup while ensuring that the skin remains moisturised.3 TonerThis is the most skipped product. However, skin experts insist toners are essential to ensure the pH balance of the skin is maintained. Go for alcohol-free toners if you’re using it daily. Acid toners should only be used twice or thrice in a week.4 Spot treatmentsIf you’re using retinol for spot correction or a specific serum for acne or pimples, apply it before you apply any other moisturiser so that the product can seep into the skin better.5 Eye creamsThe area around the eyes is thinner and demands special attention. Just like an eye makeup remover, it is always wise to invest in eye creams. You can target a specific problem or go for eye creams that perform more functions than one.6 Moisturisers, night creams, and oilSave this for the end. Night creams are usually thicker in consistency and feel heavier than day creams, which is why it should be used last. Over the course of the night, moisturisers gradually get absorbed into the skin while they simultaneously prevent your skin from losing water and hydration.Antara Bose is a model turned fashion and beauty consultant. A popular blogger, anchor, and voice over artist, she maintains a deep connection with the local fashion industry and is passionate about discovering and celebrating aspiring talent as well as promoting animal rights. For fashion updates with a side of humour and sarcasm follow Antara on instagram: @antarabose and on Facebook: Antara Bose.
