
# Plan to plug waste flow to Vrushabhavathi River

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Akhila Damodaran**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/plan-to-plug-waste-flow-to-vrushabhavathi-river/articleshow/71871426.cms)

KPCB submits plan on steps to stop untreated sewage from entering valley The Karnataka Pollution Control Board has submitted an action plan to the Lokayukta about the Vrushabhavathi River to keep a check on effluents from industries and the city’s untreated sewage entering the lake. This comes after the Bangalore Environment Trust had filed a complaint of dereliction of duty by the authorities. The polluted water of the valley has affected the lives of lakhs of people living in the area so far, the complaint states. The Board has said in the plan that it would ensure that the industrial waste is sent to the nine common effluent treatment plants in and around the city. A meeting will be held with all stakeholders, including the complainants, next week to discuss the issues. The complainant Yellapa Reddy says 400 million litre of untreated waste flows into the valley from the city. “There are hundreds of industries including some unauthorised ones in the area that discharge effluents into the river. Many dump waste -- be it electronic or biomedical -- in the midnight into the valley. The livelihood of lakhs of people are getting affected by this. They depend on agriculture and animal husbandry,” he says. He says the polluted water has drastically reduced the agricultural yield and is making the animals fall sick. “No action has been taken to save the valley by the government and other authorities. The Lokayukta had ordered the pollution control board to come up with an action plan. We would provide them suggestions that they can include. The Lokayukta would then decide and issue order to implement them,” he says.
No action has been taken to save the valley by the government. The Lokayukta had ordered the pollution board to come up with an action plan.
­Yellapa Reddy, complainantThe team had been studying the valley and documenting lives of the people there. They collected the water sample for testings. It would be verified by the pollution control board. He says, “The laboratory report showed levels of several chemicals beyond the alert threshold limit. The water showed the presence of heavy metals, chromium, cadmium, lead and herbicide. Once it enters the foodchain, it would be a drastic situation.” The order of the Lokayukta states that it is the responsibility and duty of the Pollution Control Board to prevent air, water and discharge of hazardous waste/effluent substance and control the pollutant industries and take action including criminal prosecution against them. The BWSSB has installed nine sewage treatment plants and is receiving 198.5 MLD while the capacity of the plant is 386 MLD. . KPSCB had conducted a survey in 2018 and inspected 3,304 industries, the Board issued showcause notices to 407 industries, closure orders to 241 industries and action is under progress for 591 industries for noncompliance. The Board has proposed measures to monitor illegal discharges with only GPS enabled authorised vehicles and with tracking system being allowed for transportation of effluents from industries to Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP).
