
# Tile Mate deal includes free Amazon Echo Dot before Black Friday

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:12:00+00:00**

Author: **Somrata Sarkar**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/news/digital-home/free-amazon-echo-dot-tile-mate-deal-3777146/)

Now that we've entered November, you can officially pack away the Halloween decorations and prepare for the holidays. Black Friday, which falls on 29 November this year, is a great opportunity to save on Christmas presents, though excellent deals are already starting to roll in. Right now, Amazon is bundling a free Echo Dot with a 4-pack bundle of the latest Tile Mate Bluetooth trackers.
Though this isn't specifically a Black Friday deal, it's still a fantastic discount. A single Tile Mate costs £19.99, while the 4-pack costs £79.96, regularly. Tile is currently running a promotion that reduces quad-squad pack of Tile Mates to £59.99, which is the price Amazon has mirrored – except Amazon's deal also gets you the Echo Dot for free (it's separately worth £49.99). Head to Amazon now to see this Tile Mate and Echo Dot bundle deal.
Don't forget you can also get £15 off the Echo Dot right now if you're just after the smart speaker alone. Use the comparison tool below to see Echo Dot prices across major retailers:
If you're not entirely sure, the Tile Mate is a small tag with a 200-foot Bluetooth range that helps you locate everyday things prone to getting lost – like your phone, keys, wallet or pet even. It operates with a connected app, which you can use to ring the Tile tag.
Conversely, if you're looking for your phone, you can press a button on the Tile tracker to make your phone ring even when its on silent. The Tile Mate promises a one-year battery life. We've reviewed the Tile Pro (2018) and loved it, though we only wished it was waterproof. It is splash-proof, however.
Head to Tile to pick up the Tile Mate on its own, or head to Amazon to pick it up with a free Echo Dot.
