
# Cristiano Ronaldo sends touching message to Andre Gomes after horror injury

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:05:34+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/cristiano-ronaldo-sends-touching-message-20811273)

Cristiano Ronaldo has sent a touching message to stricken Everton star Andre Gomes.
Gomes is facing up to a year out after he suffered a horror injury during the 1-1 draw with Tottenham at Goodison Park on Sunday.
The Portuguese midfielder was caught by a late challenge from Son Heung-min before colliding with Serge Aurier.
Gomes underwent surgery on Monday and Everton have confirmed they expect him to make a full recovery, amid initial fears his career could be in danger.
He has received messages of support from across football and Portuguese teammate Ronaldo has sent his own.
Posting a picture of the pair on international duty, Ronaldo prayed for a fast recovery and vowed Gomes "will come back stronger".
Everton boss Marco Silva insists Gomes will get back to his best after the horror setback.
"Andre will have all the support he needs. I am 100% sure he will become stronger as a football player and a man.
"He is a fantastic man and a fantastic professional. Our players are sad but the spirit we showed was a good answer."
Defender Mason Holgate added: "“It shows what we are about as a team. We got together and I think it drove us on a bit more once we got going, trying to do it for Andre.
“(In the dressing room afterwards) It was really flat. It was like we had been beaten. He is all our friend and our team-mate so we are all gutted and wishing him the best.
“We are all thinking about him and wish him the best. It is hard when something like that happens to get going again, but we got together, we wanted to win for him, and we showed fight and went again.”
