
# MasterChef US winner Shaun O’Neale hosting one-off masterclass in Dubai

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Darragh Murphy**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/things-to-do/421977-masterchef-us-winner-shaun-oneale-hosting-one-off-masterclass-in-dubai)

Prepare to don your aprons, cooks of Dubai. The esteemed champion of MasterChef US season seven is preparing to teach you the ways of making a TV show winning dish.MasterChef, The TV Experience in Dubai Marina is hosting celebrity DJ-turned-MasterChef champion Shaun O’Neale for a ‘show-and-tell’ class and special dinner all about American cuisine.Kicking off on Saturday November 30 from 5pm until 7pm, the masterclass will have you masterfully whipping up recreations two of O’Neale’s signature dishes.There’s his truffle mushroom and white asparagus risotto, with truffle, chanterelles, cremini, shiitake and white asparagus, along with the sweet lemon meringue redux, made with pavlova, passionfruit curd, blueberry compote and a macadamia cookie.Done making your culinary masterpieces? Don’t fret, you won’t be just making food, you’ll also be dining at the ‘Champion’s Table’ for a five-course tasting menu.“This MasterClass is all about the three c’s: cooking, chatting and chewing. I want to take my guests on a whirlwind tour of my career, my influences and my techniques,” said O’Neale.“I love cooking but there’s always something special about cooking for smaller groups – you feel the engagement and actually get to know your guests, I can’t wait.”Only ten spots are available for the one-night class.After more American-inspired dishes to tuck into around Dubai? Check out these amazing Eat, Sip, Save deals so you can tuck in without spending a pretty dirham.As for more things to do in Dubai, click here.Dhs489 (food-only), Dhs649 (house beverages). Sat Nov 30, 5pm-7pm (masterclass). Millennium Place Marina, Dubai Marina, www.masterchefdxb.com (04 550 8111).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
