
# Arsenal warned they will be 'blown away' by Leicester in crunch top four clash

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:29:34+00:00**

Author: **Alex Milne**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-warned-blown-away-leicester-20833626)

Ex-Arsenal forward Charlie Nicholas believes his former side could be heavily beaten by Leicester City when the two teams play on Saturday evening.
The Gunners are struggling for form at the moment, and suffered another blow by conceding a last-minute equaliser against Vitoria in their 1-1 draw in the Europa League on Wednesday.
Leicester, meanwhile, have won six of their last seven games in all competitions, and sit third in the Premier League, just two points behind second-placed Manchester City .
Nicholas, who made 184 appearances for Arsenal between 1983-1988, thinks Unai Emery's side could be in for a tough time at the King Power Stadium.
Speaking to Sky Sports News Nicholas said: "It's seriously worrying. They've got Leicester on Saturday evening and at the moment it looks like they could blow them away.
"Arsenal fans have travelled and watched another basic performance. I like the manager a lot but I said the same with Arsene Wenger: things have to change. He [Emery] has to be stronger and sort these problems out.
"Arsenal have lost the urgency to go and win football matches. The defensive frailties have been there for 18 months, if not longer, and things need to get sorted now. Arsenal fans are starting to get pretty fed up."
The pressure has started to mount on Emery following the Gunners' mixed start to the season, and Nicholas thinks the supporters are starting to lose patience with the Spaniard.
He added: "I think the fans are starting to turn. They are asking the same thing as I am: where is the improvement and what is the difference (to Wenger)? What is Arsenal's personality.
"So yes, take it game by game, but if they are to lose to Leicester, the manager will come under serious, serious scrutiny."
Arsenal are currently six points behind fourth placed Chelsea , and a loss to Leicester could see them fall even further behind in the race for Champions League qualification.
