
# 'Missing link' Birmingham City fall at Cardiff as fans identify the problem and Pep Clotet sees positives

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Steve Wollaston, https://www.facebook.com/stevewollastonjournalist/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/missing-link-birmingham-city-fall-17191824)

A six goal thriller in Cardiff, and a Birmingham City manager leaving Wales feeling that his side deserved better.
Pep Clotet cut a frustrated figure after the game as he spoke to us about what went wrong for Blues.
He stated: "It was a game with a little bit of everything, a lot of emotion, a lot of intensity. "For us, we feel we  leave Cardiff without receiving what we deserve. "I think the big difference between both teams was the way Cardiff had all the luck when it comes to transforming those chances - and we didn’t.
"We knew it was a very tough place, it was a very difficult game for us because it’s very easy to get sucked into Cardiff’s football and make it very difficult for yourself.
"But I think the players in the first half started very well and put out the football we wanted and created a lot of chances - in total 25 shots on goal - and we still only managed to score two goals.
 
"It’s a platform for us to understand we need to make sure we put the game to bed as soon as we can. That’s the reality.
"As soon as Cardiff had the opportunity to get back into the game on that penalty, they took it.
"That was probably the difference, they took all the opportunities they had to get back into the game and for us it was hard work because we had to build a lot to make chances. "But the first half that I saw is the way I want Birmingham City to play."
“You could see the lads were really nervous to start with. To concede a goal as well, I am tremendously proud of them they character they showed, they knew how bad they were last week at Swansea.
“I thought we played some good football today at times, there was no panic like there was last week and some good goals. If anything I thought we played better with ten men."
Birmingham City were condemned to another away day defeat as Cardiff City demonstrated the kind of clinical finishing that eluded the visitors. Blues had more than enough chances to take a firm grip on proceedings at a drenched - and stormy Cardiff City Stadium, taking an early lead and twice hitting the goal-frame.
However, an inability to convert their chances came back to haunt them as Joe Ralls scored a hat-trick and Curtis Nelson one to give the Bluebirds a much needed victory.
By the end both teams finished with ten men on an incredibly frustrating afternoon for Blues.
Pep Clotet had kept faith with the same team which beat Luton Town last time out - and that continuity showed as Blues raced into the  lead.
It took them just three minutes to do so, as Fran Villalba’s free kick was  headed back across goal by Lukas Jutkiewicz.
Kerim Mrabti and Kristian Pedersen converged on the ball and it was the Dane who barrelled it home.
Blues then twice hit the woodwork, first on the quarter hour when Mrabti slipped a pass into the path of Jude Bellingham who had surged into the box.
The youngster’s first time shot hit the bar and not the back of the  net.
Then two minutes later Maxime Colin broke down the right to find runners flooding the area, he played the ball across to Crowley.
The 22-year-old side-footed past Neil Etheridge but on to the post. The rebound came straight back out, hit the goalkeeper on the head and ballooned over the bar.
Blues were made to  pay for their wastefulness on the half hour when Andrew Madley invited Cardiff in the game by awarding them a penalty.
The visitors looked to have cleared from a corner when the referee pointed to the spot, with the suggestion of off-the-ball wrestling.
Ralls stepped up to equalise.
 
The Bluebirds were ahead eight minutes later when Colin conceded a corner, Aden Flint rose to meet it flush but his header from eight yards was straight at Camp.
A melee ensued and after a couple of swings at it Nelson prodded home to give Neil Warnock’s men an undeserved lead at the break.
Nelson had the ball in the net from another corner soon after the restart but Madley ruled it out for pushing down.
The hosts were reduced to ten soon after when Danny Ward slid recklessly in on Mrabti and was shown a straight red card.
That deflated them for a brief period as Blues pushed on but with a quarter of the game to go they landed a sucker-punch.
Nathaniel Mendez-Laing twisted his way into the box, away from Pedersen and squared for Ralls to calmly stroke home for 3-1.
Ivan Sunjic gave Blues late hope with a cool 20-yard finish in the final minute but Harlee Dean was also sent off for a robust challenge in which Madley felt he’d led with his elbow. Madley wasn’t done and gave Cardiff a stoppage time penalty with which Ralls completed his hat-trick.
RG: Baffled by a majority of the referee's decision making today, very poor! That being said, we didn't take our early chances today and lost momentum. On to the next..
Mike: Require two strikers who can hit a barn door. One Experienced defender and a leader of men. One new keeper that instills confidence in the defence.
Ben Yardley: The missing link is prolific striker obviously, who could we get in realistically? Ivan Toney is the obvious choice but I can’t see Peterborough letting him go. Realistically can’t see us winning away for a while we just don’t seem to be able to do it
Jessica Emmie: Watching the highlights. Failing to see why it was a penalty. In regards to Dean, he was ball watching and in fact, the Cardiff player went for him first. He should of got a red for causing the situation. Or at least both of them.
Steven Vaughan: How to make a terrible referee better, demote him to a lower league and hope for the best. Getting sick and tired of complaining about the officiating week in, week out, the answer really isn’t giving the championship premier league cast offs
Saturday 9th November 2019
Fulham (H)
Blues will be back at St Andrew's for the match against Fulham and a team just 1 point above them in the league.
They are also a team that has just been thumped 3-0 at home to Hull. Not the result they would have been hoping for.
That makes them a dangerous opposition and one looking to bounce back.
