
# Rulani: If Anyone Is Still Questioning…

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/orlando-pirates/pirates-players-fighting-for-rulani/666710)

Rulani Mokwena says the Orlando Pirates players have proven – beyond any doubt – that they are willing to put in the hard yards for him during what the interim coach has recently described as a transitional period for the club. 
The young mentor stepped into the Buccaneers hot seat three months ago following the shock resignation of Micho Sredojevic, but has had his work cut out – so far only managing three wins in 11 matches.

        Read: Despereate Plea To PSL 
      
On Saturday, Pirates were dumped out of the Telkom Knockout quarter-finals on penalties, by rivals Kaizer Chiefs, but Mokwena argued their performance was a gallant one that proved the players were ready to “fight for coach Rulani”.
“I said at the beginning Pirates don’t need a coach that talks too much at this moment, our talking we need to do on the pitch. And if anyone is still questioning the commitment of the players to the cause, then I think they must replay the 45 minutes and the extra 30 minutes of the match,” he told the media.
Pirates held Chiefs to a 2-2 draw during open play and had to do it all without defender Mthokozisi Dube after he was sent off five minutes into the second half. 
“That’s if you have questions about whether the players are fighting for coach Rulani. The answer is on the pitch. But I don’t want them to fight for me by the way, I want them to play for the supporters and this big institution because it’s greater than me. But if you still have doubts about these honest gentlemen, then you replay the match. In me, they’ve got an older brother for life,” Mokwena added.

        Read: 'Pirates Don't Need This Coach' 
      
