
# Enfield stabbing: Two arrested as victim's dad pleads 'lay down your blades'

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:43:31+00:00**

Author: **Danya Bazaraa, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/danya-bazaraa/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/enfield-stabbing-two-arrested-victims-20791250)

Two people have been arrested after the death of a man who turned up to hospital suffering from a stab wound.
James Amadu, 26, arrived injured at a north London hospital after police were called to reports of a stabbing at 1.02pm yesterday - he sadly died at 2.21pm.
Today detectives have confirmed an 18-year-old man and a 15-year-old boy have been arrested on suspicion of murder.
Both will be questioned by Specialist Crime detectives at north London police stations over the incident in Enfield, north London.
Emergency services turned up to the scene on Thursday after they were alerted to the incident and a crime scene was established - but no victim was present.
James - understood to have celebrated his birthday just last week - tragically died in hospital a short while later.
The victim was said to be a 'doting' father to his two-year-old daughter and has been described as the backbone of his family.
James' dad Francis told the Evening Standard: "More needs to be done to tackle knife crime and young people need to lay down their blades."
His mum Josephine spoke of her heartbreak and devastation, saying she couldn't have wanted a better son.
James' brother Franklin, 23, added: "James was the backbone of the family - he was my backbone, he put me on the right path, he made me what I am."
Franklin said they'd just launched a clothing business together and described James as a talented, funny and great businessman.
Sister Messie spoke of the love James had for his daughter, and said the family plans to bring her up as the 'princess she has always been'.
A statement by the Met Police released this evening says: "A post-mortem examination concluded at Haringey mortuary on Friday, 1 November and gave the cause of death as a stab wound.
"The victim’s next of kin have been informed.
"Officers from North Area Command Unit investigate. Detectives from Specialist Crime are leading the investigation.
"Road closures are in place in Lavender Hill near the crime scene. Motorists are advised to avoid the area."
Kim Blackman, 34, said the incident happened outside her house.
Speaking to the Mirror Online yesterday, she said: "It's an absolute tragedy.
"For a young lad to be stabbed in such a quiet area proves we are not safe anywhere. I’m devastated for the young boy and his family.
"This has got to stop.
"I go home at lunch and to think I was so busy at work that I did not make it there today frightens me."
Anyone who witnessed this incident or has information is asked to call police on 101 quoting 3432/31OCT.
Alternatively, information can be given anonymously by calling Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
Any young people with information about violence or knife crime, can visit fearless.org where they can pass on information anonymously. Fearless is part of the Crimestoppers charity, and is also independent of the police.
If you need help or information to support someone you suspect is involved in knife crime, or you want assistance yourself, then you can visit www.knifefree.co.uk or LondonNeedsYouAlive.
