
# Affirm The Dignity Of Your Adversary

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Baldoni**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnbaldoni/2019/11/05/affirm-the-dignity-of-your-adversary/)

One of the least appealing facets of our current times is a tendency to trumpet a “win at all costs” mentality. Too often, it seems that beating your adversary is not enough; you have to humiliate him. Such an attitude breeds hostility for those with whom we disagree, and upon occasion, treat them with contempt. So it was refreshing to read a quote from B. H. Liddell Hart, a British historian and strategist who wrote Deterrent or Defense. According to historian Jon Meacham in his book, Songs of America, Senator John Kennedy while running for the presidency, wrote a review of the book, quoting Liddell Hart’s advice:
“Keep strong, if possible. In any case, keep cool. Have unlimited patience. Never corner an opponent, and always assist him to save face. Put yourself in his shoes—so as to see things through his eyes. Avoid self-righteousness like the devil—nothing is so self-blinding.” 
Liddell Hart's advice is applicable to anyone facing a crisis as well as anyone locked in a struggle with a rival. Let's take each sentence one at a time.
Keep strong, if possible. In any case, keep cool. A leader's role is to pull people together for a common cause. You can only do it when you believe in yourself and project a sense of strength. At the same time, it's essential to radiate composure. Nothing erodes faith in a boss than when he or she acts unhinged. 
Have unlimited patience. Easy to say but hard for executives to implement. Why? Because by nature, leaders mobilize people. They are in motion. Patience is perceived as passivity when it's just the opposite. Exerting patience is a sign of strength. None of us can control events, but each of us can marshal the strength to regulate how we react to it. 
Never corner an opponent, and always assist him to save face. Rat catchers know never to push a rat into a spot where he cannot escape. Doing so can provoke the rat to attack. Fortunately, opponents are not rodents, but it is wise to treat them fairly. When you know you have the better of them, give them an out. Let them exit the argument in ways that preserve dignity.
Put yourself in his shoes—so as to see things through his eyes. We all, to one degree or another, believe our ideas and opinions are best. That can be dangerous because it cuts us off from dialogue with adversaries. We remain locked in our own "thought cages." If you want to win someone over to your argument, you need to understand their point of view. Listen to what they have to say without jumping to conclusions. Be willing also to re-examine your own assumptions. It is always possible that other people have ideas, too. Really! 
Avoid self-righteousness like the devil—nothing is so self-blinding. Nothing is so blissful as being right. At the same time, nothing is so obnoxious to others when you act high and mighty about how right you are. Doing so turns people off and only encourages them to turn against you. 

        Don’t dunk on your teammates
      
Not only are Hart’s words applicable to an adversary, but they are also useful guidelines for anyone conducting a tough meeting. The leader chairing the meeting should insist that everyone voice their ideas. But do so with respect for others. Make it clear there is no room for showboating as well as bloviating. Keep your comments coherent and concise. 
A colleague of mine, James M. Kerr, management consultant and author of The Executive Checklist, provided me with these ground rules he uses with his clients who run meetings.
·      Leave parochial interests at the door, focus instead on determining what’s “right” for the organization.
·      Commit to getting the best answer, not debating. Winning is defined when we all win.
·      Listen to understand others' views. Don’t just think about what you are going to say while someone else is talking.
·      Criticize ideas, not individuals.
·      Avoid speculation; aim for clarity.
Importantly, look to inform rather than to denigrate. And when you make a point that others agree with, accept agreement graciously. There is no need, as they say in football, "to spike the ball." Even better if you get the better of a rival in a meeting, play the role of a teammate. After all, next time, the shoe could be on the other foot, and you could lose the next argument.
Baltasar Gracian, a 16th century Jesuit philosopher, wrote: "A wise man gets more use from his enemies than a fool from his friends." Therefore, learn from them and apply those learnings to how to speak and lead.
