
# Austin MacPhee defends Hearts tactics and makes telling prediction over his own future

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:41:25+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/austin-macphee-defends-hearts-tactics-20803655)

Austin MacPhee defended his tactics as Hearts were blown away in the Betfred Cup semi-final.
The stand-in boss surprisingly benched Uche Ikpeazu, then had to bring him on early when striker Steven MacLean lost the plot.
The former Rangers frontman was hooked five minutes before half-time for going in studs up on Allan McGregor after earlier being booked for throwing an elbow into the face of Connor Goldson.
Hearts barely mustered a chance of note as they were swept aside by Rangers, with the only surprise it took Steven Gerrard ’s side until first half injury time to hit the opener.
MacPhee also lamented the loss to injury in the first half to key midfielder Glenn Whelan and defender Michael Smith, which made an already difficult job almost impossible.
MacPhee was asked if, with the benefit of hindsight, he’d start Ikpeazu instead of MacLean to give his side a more physical dimension and pull them up the pitch.
He said: “I’m not sure. Steven played a very important role in that system in the Scottish Cup final, but today we didn’t quite get high enough up the pitch.
“The plan was to keep the game tight in the early stages then introduce players who can affect the game more in the attacking end.
“We knew it would be difficult for Uche with the amount of work he’d have to do and we were only one minute away from getting to half-time.
“I’d planned to introduce Uche at half-time and Steven just had to come off a couple of minutes before that.
“Rangers dominated first half possession and most of our possession was in our own half but we hoped we could get in and re-group at the interval.
“We planned to add Jamie Walker and Steven Naismith to the team later on as they’re returning from injury, as well as having have Uche strong at the end of the game but I had to introduce him early.
“We lost the opener and also Michael Smith, as well as Glenn Whelan earlier, and it was a terrible time to lose a goal, as well as two key players through injury.
“I thought the team could have gone under at 3-0 down but they stuck to it.
“The focus is on Saturday now - it’s a massive game for the club against St Mirren and we need a good attacking performance at Tynecastle.
“Everyone is disappointed we lost the semi-final but it doesn’t change anything. The players, myself and the staff must focus on being as well prepared as possible to take three points as we haven’t won at Tynecastle in a while. It’s very important to win before the international break.”
 
MacPhee will have discussions with Hearts owner Ann Budge in the morning but anticipates remaining in charge of the team while she draws up a list of candidates to replace Craig Levein.
He said: “This is the fourth game I’ve stood in due to a variety of reasons. I’ve won my previous three against Motherwell, Livingston and St Mirren. This was a cup semi-final against Rangers at Hampden.
“We haven’t beaten them since 2017, we lost two experienced players through injury so I’m just going to do what I’ve done the two other times and make sure Hearts are prepared to beat St Mirren on Saturday.
“Ann and I will obviously talk about the structure in the next week but I would imagine I’ll be in charge.”
