
# Petronas emphasises sustainable practice

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:55:48+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/petronas-emphasises-sustainable-practice)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6): Petroliam Nasional Bhd (Petronas) says it puts a strong emphasis on its sustainable practice as part of its responsibility to its stakeholders.
Its vice president of group health, safety, security and environment Dzafri Sham Ahmad said since its inception, Petronas' sustainable practice has expanded with its recent enhancement on its Statement of Purpose to strengthen the group as an energy and solutions provider.
"The Statement of Purpose gives us greater meaning for our existence.
“Taking a cue from our Statement of Purpose, we have established our sustainability agenda that revolves around four lenses namely value creation, safeguarding the environment, positive social impact and responsible governance," he said at the Malaysia SDG Summit 2019 here today.
Dzafri said the four lenses would give Petronas a better sense of direction and focus on all activities under sustainability.
"For Petronas, we must have a clear agenda. This agenda has helped us to orchestrate various programmes and initiatives under the sustainable agenda in a better way.
“That is one of the main reasons for having a clear agenda," he added.
In his keynote address at the Business Leaders SDG Forum, Dzafrin said it is absolutely imperative for Petronas to instil the right culture and mindset within the organisation that would enable it to focus on growing its business responsibly while benefiting the people and the environment in a sustainable manner.
"Our Sustainability Agenda is a reflection of Petronas' commitment to sound economic growth and the environmental, social and governance components.
“The agenda also embraces the seven Sustainable Development Goals that have been prioritised to further provide us focus in efforts and initiatives under the Agenda," he added.
The inaugural Malaysia SDG Summit 2019 is co-organised by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and United Nations Malaysia.
Themed 'Accelerating Progress on the SDGs: Whole of Nation Approach', the two-day summit, which ends tomorrow, has attracted more than 2,000 participants.
