
# Best Amazon Echo 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Jim Martin**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/test-centre/digital-home/best-amazon-echo-3686868/)


        Jump straight to our full best amazon echo list
      
How sci-fi that we can talk to a device and have it talk back to us. Smart speakers are here to stay, and Amazon is leading the way with its Echo range and built-in Alexa voice assistant.
But the regular Echo smart speaker isn’t the only Alexa device available. Amazon sells several different ones and they all do things a little differently. Combined, they hold 75% of the UK smart speaker market, according to a YouGov survey. 
Most of them are smart speakers. These are devices suited to indoor home use that respond to voice commands when connected to Wi-Fi.
You can say something simple like "Alexa, what’s the time?" right up to "Alexa, turn the lights on in the kitchen" – the latter if you have set up a compatible product.
This is the cool thing about Alexa products. You can use them as simply or as intricately as you like.
In September 2019 Amazon announced many new and updated Echo devices. We have reviewed the new third-gen Echo and Echo Dot with Clock and Echo Studio, and will test out the Echo Show 8 shortly.
There’s also the Echo Show 5, which is an inexpensive alternative to the 10in model - the number refers to the screen size: 5.5in.
If you think you want a voice assistant smart speaker, one of these Echo devices is going to fit the bill.
All the models on this list can do basic things like answer web searches, play music and radio and even call other Echos or smartphones. Read on to see what they all do differently, but also check out these great accessories for the various Echo devices including the Wall Clock and Echo Connect.
This is the Amazon Echo to buy if you care about sound quality. You still need to subscribe to a music streaming service that offers 'HD' music and, not coincidentaly, Amazon's own is the current one to go for.
The Studio doesn't only do hi-res audio: it also supports so-called 3D audio. Currently it can play Dolby Atmos and Sony 360 Reality Audio, which can be both music and video soundtracks.
Best of all, it's way cheaper than rivals from Apple and Google.
Read our Amazon Echo Studio review.
This latest Echo Dot sounds a lot better, looks a lot better and is great value at this price. You can even pair two Dots for stereo sound.
It's a great entry into the world of Alexa to listen to radio, podcast and music as well as ask queries. You can have one, or put several about the house. 
Read our Amazon Echo Dot (3rd-gen) review.
It may cost the same as the Lenovo Smart Clock, but it includes a couple of key features you might want, such as Bluetooth and a camera. The screen is a little small for watching video, but it's a great size for a bedside table.
Just remember there's no Google here: Alexa has many skills but they don't tie into any Google services.
Read our Amazon Echo Show 5 review.
The Amazon Echo 3 is a great improvement on the Echo 2 not only in terms of design but audio output too. It's very similar to the second-gen Echo Plus, featuring the same 3in subwoofer and 0.8in tweeter that provides crisp vocals and booming bass, but you miss out on the smart hub and thermometer functionality.
Still, for £89.99/$99.99, it's a great-sounding smart speaker that'll be able to answer almost any query you throw at it - just make sure you've got the appropriate Skill enabled first. 
Read our Amazon Echo (3rd-gen) review.
The Echo Dot with Clock is a great alternative to the regular Echo Dot, especially if you plan to use it on your nightstand. It’s a relatively minor change but it’s genuinely helpful to be able to see the time and how long is left on a timer. 
So if those are two features you like the sound of, the Dot with Clock is well worth the extra money.
Read our Amazon Echo Dot with Clock review.
The second-gen Echo Plus is shorter, louder and nicer-looking than the original speaker while still boasting an integrated smart hub to control ZigBee smart home tech (along with Alexa-supported devices). 
The audio is clear, vocals are warm and it has a strong bass presence, and thanks to Dolby Play 360 audio support, it does a great job at filling the room with music. 
If you've got ZigBee-supported smart home tech, the Echo Plus is the ideal option. 
Read our Amazon Echo Plus (2nd-gen) review.
It's expensive, but the 2nd-gen Echo Show is a good upgrade on the original. If you want Alexa with a screen this is a good option. It lets you call other people with Alexa devices, look up stuff online and watch Amazon Prime video. Just remember that it needs to be plugged in, it's not a tablet.
Audio is decent and the screen is a good size but unless you really want the visual element or ability to call other Shows, you'd be better off with the Echo or the Echo Plus. And if you do want a screen but a more affordable price, look to the Echo Show 5.
Read our Amazon Echo Show (2nd-gen) review.
The sound quality on this older Echo Dot is not as good as on the 3rd-gen model. If you want the best sound from a Dot, buy the latest one.
But this older Dot is sometimes on sale for much less and if you want to buy a few to put in different rooms for voice commands for smart home appliances, it's the cheapest way to do it.
Read our Amazon Echo Dot (2nd-gen) review.
The Echo Plus is a decent smart speaker, but it's still the same price as the Echo Plus 2 which is better in every area. If you prefer the design of this first-gen version then it performs the same functions but otherwise there's no reason to pick it over the newer one.
Read our Amazon Echo Plus (1st-gen) review.
