
# DinoPC Cryolos AMD Extreme PC Review

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:27:38+00:00**

Author: **Peter Donnell**

Original: [eTeknix](https://www.eteknix.com/dinopc-cryolos-amd-extreme-pc-review/)

I’m sure many of our readers build their own PCs, but I bet not all of you did. There are many perfectly good reasons to go pre-built. You get guaranteed component compatibility, as well as a warranty on the whole system. Someone builds it for you, obviously, which can be a big benefit if you’re a busy person. Sourcing, taking delivery of all the components, and building a system can be rewarding, but it can be time-consuming too; not everyone wants to do that.
There’s also cost too. Many times we’ve seen pre-built systems actually coming in cheaper than a self-build of the same specifications. That’s not always true though, but when you factor in the warranty, software bundles, etc, it can often be extremely competitive. Of course, that’s where DinoPC step in today. We’ve got one of their custom-built AMD Ryzen gaming PCs in for review!
Our system features the AMD Ryzen 3800X, one of the best gaming CPUs on the market today! Not only that, but DinoPC has overclocked the CPU to 4.2GHz, which should give it an edge in just about any benchmark. That’s fitted to the fantastic ASUS RoG STRIX B450-I Gaming mini-ITX motherboard, with an ASUS STRIX Radeon RX 5700 XT doing the graphics heavy-lifting. That’s a pretty fantastic combo that should smash through the latest games at 1440p.
It’s all built in a Corsair Crystal 280X, crammed full of a Corsair RGB fans and a Corsair white 240mm AIO for an ultra-clean look. On top of that, you also have an included bundle of the Corsair K55 keyboard and Harpoon RGB gaming mouse. AMD/Corsair/ASUS come together in one neat package; this should be pretty fantastic!
Firstly, the DinoPC Cryolos really does look fantastic. I’ve got the window off the side here you can clearly see inside. Of course, I’ll show it with the glass back on in a few moments when we fire up the RGB lighting. The Corsair Crystal series is by far one of the favourites. The 280X is especially stunning, and in white, even more so. It’s certainly a case worthy of having up on top of your desk, and even more so with what DinoPC have done on the interior.
While the case does feature plenty of RGB lighting, they’ve kept the build 100% monochrome. I really appreciate that attention to detail with the theme, it makes it feel special.
The case is black/white, obviously. However, they’ve fitted a white 240mm AIO from Corsair, which also features white fans. These contrast well with the radiator and the black fans on the front, giving it some variety.
All of the fans are RGB too, which are what will provide plenty of light for the build. With so much white and tempered glass in here, it should light up beautifully too. There are two fans bringing cool air in at the front, while heat passively exhausts out the rear. However, the AIO blows up out of the top of the case, which will also help remove any ambient heat too.
Next up, we have the graphics card. It’s an ASUS TUF Gaming Radeon RX 5700 XT. That’s the fastest card AMD has in their arsenal right now and it’s plenty fast for 1440p and high frame rate gaming. Plus, it’s paired with the AMD Ryzen 7 3800X CPU, which is a bit of a beast in its own right; and strong competition for the Intel i9 series.
The GPU keeps that black and white theme too. I love the huge aluminium backplate on it also, which has a digital graphic design towards the back.
Keeping with ASUS for a bit, we have their STRIX series gaming B450 series motherboard. This features an M.2 heatsink, behind which you’ll find the Samsung NVMe drive. However, they tucked the 3.5″ drive in the back for mass storage too; out of sight, out of mind. Finally, we have that lovely white Corsair RAM, which features some big RGB lighting strips on the top.
Overall, it’s a very clean and tidy build. DinoPC clearly knows what they’re doing, with tight cable management, and a good match of components regarding compatibility, performance, as well as aesthetics.
Let’s not forget that it also comes with this handsome Corsair K55 keyboard and Harpoon mouse bundle. We actually reviewed these peripherals, check em out here.
With RGB fans on the front panel, RGB fans on the radiator, RGB on the pump, RGB on the motherboard, and on the RAM, you’re not short on colour here. Everything has been synced through the built-in hub too. What this means is that from the moment you power on your system, it all matches!
By default, it’s on a slow colour cycle, which is perfect for me. However, if you really want to, you can use Corsair iCUE to customise everything to your liking. Effects, fades, brightness, reactions, or just turn them off. It’s really up to you, but I must admit, the purple is alluring.
So there we have it, a stunning and rather colourful build from DinoPC. However, we really want to see how it performs, so let’s go fire up some benchmarks. Check out a few more bonus pictures first though!
To test each system or notebook, we want to stress every component of the system to check stability and performance, giving us an idea as to why those particular components were picked for this particular system. We use a wide variety of applications to gain a broad spectrum of results for comparing diverse aspects of system performance.
All games are tested at both 1920 x 1080, 2560 x 1440 and 3840 x 2160 (4K) (where supported). *Please note that for systems which do not support a particular resolution, such as 1080p laptops, we will not test the higher resolutions on those devices.
In an attempt to bring our games more into line with modern releases and specifically those that offer Nvidia RTX/DLSS features, we have decided to update some of our games accordingly. Please note that not all games listed below may be used in our tests.
Shadow of the Tomb Raider DX12 Medium Preset – Includes Separate RTX/DLSS Tests – Steam Link
Deus Ex: Mankind Divided DX12 Medium Preset – Steam Link
Rise of the Tomb Raider Medium Preset– Steam Link
Metro Exodus DX12 Medium Preset – Includes Separate RTX/DLSS Tests – Epic Games Link
Far Cry New Dawn Medium Preset – Steam Link
World of Tanks enCore Medium Preset – Official website
F1 2018 Medium Preset – Steam Link

            3DMark Fire Strike (download)
          

            Unigine Superposition (download)
          

            PCMark 10 Professional (download)
          

            WPrime (download)
          

            CineBench R15 (download)
          

            Handbrake (download)
          
To stress processors to their absolute limit and accurately judge their performance in video editing workloads, we transcode a 7.7GB compilation of gaming footage; this particular file is freely available from here. The captured footage is 22 minutes and 12 seconds long, it has a bit rate of 50.1 Mbps and it uses the Advanced Video Codec. Additionally, the video runs at a constant 30 frames-per-second and opts for a 3820 x 2140 (4K) resolution. Once loaded into Handbrake, we then transcode the 4K MP4 to an MKV file using the “normal” profile.
Make no mistake, this is one very fast system. OK, it’s not the fastest we’ve had, but that mostly comes down to this being an upper-mid-range GPU. It can’t quite get the legs on the high-end RTX cards in some of these other systems. However, it looks like it’s strong enough to keep ahead of the RTX 2070 card in the Novatech Elite Sentinel. Regardless, this is a solid score for FireStrike.
The same is true in Unigine 4K. This is a demanding benchmark that mixes heavy CPU and GPU loads, and again, we see the DinoPC build holding on to a very high score.
Things get even better here, as the Ryzen 3800X is able to stretch its legs. This test benefits from fast single-core and multi-core performance. With the Ryzen 3800X overclocked to 4.2 GHz out of the box, and water-cooled, it has no issues thrashing everything else we’ve benchmarked so far.
The same is true of the WPrime score, as it smashed our previous record into oblivion. Just 85 seconds is about what we would expect from an overclocked Ryzen 3800X. Of course, just because it’s what we expected, that doesn’t make it any less impressive.
The eight-core and sixteen-thread CPU continued to pull its weight here too. The Novatech Reign PALADIN featured the 9900K and the RTX 2080 Ti, but it’s just not enough to fend off the Ryzen CPU in multi-core. However, even the single-core performance remained very competitive too.
Finally, we have Handbrake performance. Intel does have a little edge here, but at 75 FPS, the DinoPC system is happy in second place. For those doing any 4K transcoding, this is hardly a letdown.
Offering a 250GB NVMe M.2 SSD drive and 2TB SATA, DinoPC is giving us the best of both worlds here. Lots of storage at a decent speed for bigger games, media files, etc. However, the ultra-fast boost drive is picking up the slack for the OS. Of course, 250 GB is plenty to hold a game or two, depending on the size of the game at least. This is an all AMD system though, so you could use StoreMI to boost the HDD using the SSD.
The AMD Ryzen 3800X overclocked to 4.2 GHz combined with the fantastic ASUS Radeon RX 5700 XT is certainly a winning combination. For 1080p gaming, it’s blisteringly fast, and dialling things up to ultra settings should not be an issue. You’ll even get away with very high settings at 1440p even in very demanding games. However, if you’re pushing for 144 Hz 1440p gaming, medium to high settings would be the way to go.
For 4K gamers, the 5700 XT isn’t really the perfect card for the job. However, if you’re wanting resolution most of all, dropping to medium settings would get you around 60 FPS in this setup. However, I think this combination of GPU and CPU is a winner for 1080p Ultra and 1440p High; typically that’s the standard of monitor most gamers buy these days anyway.
It’s all AMD too, so you can reap those lovely FreeSync gains if you buy a compatible monitor. Most gaming monitors these days have FreeSync and are typically 144hz 1440p, so that’s not too much of a stretch in its self.
