
# Power and Privilege: Why Foundations Have Not Acted On Climate Change

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bonnie Chiu**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bonniechiu/2019/11/01/power-and-privilege-why-foundations-have-not-acted-on-climate-change/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_term=Valerie/)

Earlier this year, assets accumulated by U.S. foundations-organizations which provide philanthropic assets to advance public good- have exceeded over 1 trillion dollars. The global estimates are around 1.5 trillion dollars. 
With the rise of ESG investing and concerns over climate change, there is increasing scrutiny over how foundations invest their huge endowments. A few high-profile foundations have announced divestment from fossil fuels in recent years, such as the Rockefeller Brothers Fund despite the fact that the origin of family wealth came from oil and gas.
A new report, by Ten Years’ Time, a philanthropy advisory firm, argues that there needs to be a seismic shift in how foundations approach the issue of climate change. Fundamentally, foundations need to question power and privilege. 
“Our view is that foundations, as registered charities benefiting from tax privileges, should have a duty to align their investments with their charitable mission,” says Pavlina Draganova, an author of the report. “Foundations have a duty to work in the 'public benefit' (this is a legal requirement), but as things stand at the moment this only applies to their charitable work and not to their investment portfolios, even though foundations' investments are a huge part of a foundation's overall 'impact' on society.” 
The funder behind this report, titled “Climate change & social change: how funders can act on both,” is Esmee Fairbairn Foundation. The foundation has an endowment of a billion pounds, and has recently announced a 2.5% allocation within their endowment into ESG investments. Foundations benefit from regulatory independence and financial freedom, and theoretically, they should be able to transition their investments more quickly to investments that do no harm to the environment. So, why aren’t more foundations acting to move their investments?
Part of the privilege that foundations also have, is that they don't have a legal obligation to publish their investments transparently. “Their only obligation is to publish an investment 'policy,' which can be as short as one or two lines and can say as much or as little as they want to say,” says Draganova. Opacity seems to breed inaction, as the public does not exert pressures on foundation investors as opposed to other types of investors, such as pension funds or universities. 
Another reason for inaction comes back to who holds the power. The climate crisis will have a disproportionate impact on the most vulnerable, yet the decision-makers of these foundations are the most privileged people you can find in the world. After all, foundations are used as vehicles for wealthy individuals and families to preserve their wealth. 
To move towards action, foundations can start with recognizing the privileges that have been endowed on them. The report features a quote from the CEO of Lankelly Chase Foundation, with an endowment of 140 million pounds, “Arguably, the climate obligations on a foundation such as ours are pretty compelling given that our endowment has grown (in part) thanks to investments in carbon intensive industries, and given that those with our degree of freedom to act should be using that freedom.” 
With the United Nations Climate Conference, COP25, drawing near, it is time for foundations to rethink how they invest and to step up their leadership to tackle the climate crisis.
