
# Pep Fires Dig At Liverpool's African Superstar

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/pep-guardiola-fires-dig-at-liverpool-s-african-superstar/666615)

Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola aimed a little dig at Liverpool star Sadio Mane, who snatched a late winner for the Premier League leaders on Saturday.

        
          Read: African Superstar Rescues Victory For Liverpool
        
      
The Senegalese star nodded home a stoppage time winner against Aston Villa at Villa Park to maintain the side's six-point lead over the Citizens, who also a struck late winner against Southampton.
Mane was also in the headlines after he was booked for simulation in the victory over Villa, and Guardiola could not resist at taking a dig at the Reds top scorer for the dive.
"It's happened a lot for Liverpool in the last years [scoring late on]. It's because he's a special talent," Guardiola said of Mane on the BBC.

        Click through the gallery below to see the highest-paid coaches in England:
      
"Sometimes he's diving, sometimes he has this talent to score incredible goals in the last minute. He's a talent.
"If it's one time, two times, 'we were lucky, we were lucky', but it happened in the last two seasons many, many times – they have a special character to do that.
"We look at ourselves, we know which team we face, I think they have won 10 and drawn one. Next week we go to Anfield to try to play them."

        
          Read: The 10 Most Offside Players In EPL History
        
      
The Citizens and Liverpool will do battle in the Premier League next weekend at Anfield.
