
# Labour vows to end UK austerity and slams puny Tory pledges

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:55:15+00:00**

Author: **Pippa Crerar, Dan Bloom, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/pippa-crerar/, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/labour-vows-end-uk-austerity-20837448)

Labour has slammed puny Tory pledges as it defended its plans for a Brexit-proof spending bonanza to get the country back on its feet.
It came after Chancellor Sajid Javid ripped up Conservative fiscal rules by pledging to invest an extra £20billion-a-year in infrastructure and public services that have crumbled under savage Government cuts.
Speaking in Manchester, Mr Javid said the move would “allow us to take advantage of the opportunity to invest in our future and our public services but without squandering the hard work of the British people”.
But speaking later in Liverpool, Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell said: “What happened down the road in the Chancellor’s speech was a bit of a tragedy. Our scale of investment matches the scale of the emergency we now face – both climate change and social.”
 
He added: “The Tories are always the same. In the 80s it was dole queues and sky-high inflation. Now it’s zero hours contracts, Universal Credit and foodbanks. They treat us all with contempt.”
The Institute of Fiscal Studies said both parties are proposing substantial spending increases, but Labour plans would take UK government investment from the bottom of the international league table to the top.
Ben Zaranko of the IFS said: “Labour’s plans are especially ambitious.” On Thursday Mr McDonnell revealed a £150billion five-year fund for housing, care homes, hospitals and schools. That is on top of £250billion borrowing already planned over 10 years – adding up to £55billion a year to make the most of low interest rates.
 
Mr McDonnell said Labour’s plans would not be affected by Brexit , adding: “Whatever deal we seal will enable us to go ahead with our programme, whether it’s a deal or whether it’s Remain.” He said it would not count towards borrowing targets under Labour. Instead infrastructure investment would be kept off the nation’s balance sheet, leaving an estimated £25billion a year for day-to-day expenditure in Labour’s manifesto.
The plans have faced criticism. But Mr McDonnell said: “The IMF, the World Bank and others say now’s the time to borrow to invest. If we don’t do that, we’ll be faced with continued levels of poverty.”
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn unveiled the party’s election bus, with the slogan “It’s Time For Real Change”. He said the “people-powered” campaign has hit £1million in small donations averaging £26 each.
It came after former Labour MP Ian Austin urged voters to back Boris Johnson over Mr Corbyn. Mr McDonnell dismissed the comments, saying Mr Austin was “now employed by the Tories”. But Mr Austin, who is not contesting the Dudley North seat he has held since 2005, said: “It is completely untrue. I was appointed as an unpaid trade envoy.”
The “Remain alliance” of Lib Dems, Greens and Plaid Cymru has said it can win 44 seats after agreeing to step aside for each other in 60 seats across England and Wales yesterday.
Meanwhile Mr Johnson has vowed a new “NHS visa” making it easier for medics to work in the UK after Brexit.
