
# 10 Players Who Were Banned From International Football

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:38:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/world-news/10-players-who-were-banned-from-international-football/666512)

Lionel Messi has returned to international football after serving a three-month ban for calling FIFA corrupt, but the Argentina star isn’t the only player to have been hit with a similar sanction. Here are 10 players who were given a ban from international football.

        Click through the gallery above for images of 10 players who were banned from international football:
      
Messi was slapped with a three-month ban after the FC Barcelona star labelled FIFA as “corrupt” following his controversial sending off during Argentina’s third-place play-off win over Chile at the 2019 Copa America in July.
The 32-year-old is one of a number of South American footballers to be hit with an international ban, which includes former Paraguay 'keeper Roberto Rojas who intentionally cut himself in order to deceive the match officials and earned a lifetime ban for his troubles. 
Uruguay star Luis Suarez was suspended for four months after biting Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, while Brazil striker Gabriel Jesus was banned for two months after his furious reaction to being sent off at the Copa America earlier in the year.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      
In Europe, Zinedine Zidane received a three-match ban for his infamous headbutt on Italy's Marco Materazzi at the 2006 FIFA World Cup, although he retired from international football before serving his time. 
The French had further trouble at the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa where a number of players revolted against coach Raymond Domenech, resulting in the likes of Nicolas Anelka, Patrice Evra and Franck Ribery being expelled from the team. 

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
Former Ghana midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng received an indefinite ban from the Black Stars camp four years later for "persistent disciplinary issues", while Egypt’s Amr Warda was also temporarily suspended by the national team after allegations of sexual harassment emerged against him.
