
# UK weather forecast: Temperature to drop to freezing 0c this week as cold snap bites

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:35:52+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-forecast-temperature-drop-20813178)

Temperatures are set to plummet this week as the 'Scandinavian shiver' freezes the UK.
It's set to drop to as low as 0C in parts of Scotland tomorrow morning and on Friday evening, according to the Met Office .
Across the country, Brits will see temperatures between 2C and 4C as the early winter takes hold.
Fog and mist is also expected today, potentially spoiling Bonfire Night fireworks displays.
 
Met Office forecaster Alex Deakin said: "Where the winds are light across central areas it's likely to turn quite misty and murky over parts of the Midlands and eastern England.
"It will turn quite chilly, temperatures well down into single figures. It will be a misty murky start (on Tuesday morning).
"A frosty start to Wednesday but a bright start. Many eastern areas and much of Scotland looking dry and bright through Wednesday we will see some sunshine but its not going to be warm, temperatures in single figures in most places."
 
He added that a 'colder feel' is expected for the rest of the week.
Temperatures will peak at 13C today, before dipping down to 2C tonight and falling to 0C tomorrow morning.
This evening will be largely dry with clear spells but there will be cloud and patchy rain for a time in East Anglia and south-east England.
It will be dry with clear spells after midnight except for one or two showers around coasts, with frost developing in the north.
Tomorrow will be mostly dry with sunny spells in the morning, especially in the east.
There will be more cloud in the west with a few showers in Northern Ireland and western parts of Scotland, England and Wales.
In the afternoon rain will spread into northern and western parts but it will be mostly dry in the south-east.
Thursday will be cloudy with rain in Northern Ireland and northern parts of England and Wales.
It is expected to be bright with showers in southern England and Wales.
Friday will be bright in the north-west as showers hit the south and east.
A murky start for the southeast but this clearing during the morning. Still some rain and showers, mainly in the East, with drier and brighter weather in western parts. Windy for a time over parts of England and Wales.
A few showers around northern and eastern coasts as well as around Irish Sea coastal areas. Cold inland with a local frost likely, particularly in central and northern parts.
A cold day with some sunshine at first in the east but soon clouding over here. Outbreaks of rain developing in the west, gradually moving east and northeast later.
Showers for many on Thursday; heavy rain likely in northeast England. Brighter and drier for many on Friday before further rain spreads east on Saturday. Cold generally with night frosts.
