
# Confirmed: Chiefs Duo Cleared For Soweto Derby!

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/chiefs-duo-returning-for-soweto-derby/666963)

After missing the first of back-to-back Soweto Derbies last weekend as well as the midweek clash away to Chippa United on Wednesday, defender Reeve Frosler and midfielder Kearyn Baccus are ready to face Orlando Pirates on Saturday. 

        Read: Rulani: If You Look At The Numbers 
      
Both have been nursing injuries, with Baccus last being in action in Amakhosi’s penalty shootout win over Cape Town City in the opening round of the Telkom Knockout as far back as October 19 in the Mother City.
Frosler was substituted about half an hour into their Absa Premiership fixture at Mamelodi Sundowns nearly two weeks ago and has subsequently been ruled out of Chiefs’ previous two games, including last week’s Soweto Derby. 

        Read: 'That Was Enough To Make Him A Bad Goalkeeper'
      
Speaking to the media after Amakhosi beat Chippa 2-0 in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday night, coach Ernst Middendorp confirmed their return. 
“In the moment I would say I got feedback and Yagan Sasman needed three days more, so did Khama Billiat, Lebogang Manyama and Eric Mathoho. As it looks, Reeve and Kearyn, definitely yes they will be available on Saturday as per information I got. And we will have to see which team we get on Saturday,” the coach said. 

        
          Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
