
# Duterte maintains very good rating

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:32:07+00:00**

Author: **Efren Montano**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/duterte-maintains-very-good-rating)

Duterte received a net satisfaction rating of +65, down by 3 points from his personal record-high +68 recorded in the previous quarter.
A Pulse Asia survey earlier found Duterte’s approval and trust ratings went down in the third quarter amid the Senate’s investigation on alleged irregularities in the national penitentiary and on “ninja cops” or police officers who resell seized illegal drugs.
Of 1,800 Filipino adults, 78 percent told SWS they were satisfied with Duterte’s performance as chief executive, while 13 percent were dissatisfied and 9 percent were undecided.
The decline in Duterte’s rating was due to decreases in Balance Luzon and Mindanao, SWS said.
Although down by 5 points to +76 in his home region, Duterte’s rating stayed “excellent.” It also remained “very good” in Balance Luzon at +54 despite an 11-point decrease.
Visayans gave Duterte an “excellent” rating of +75, up by 9 points from +66 in the previous quarter. The President maintained his “very good” rating in Manila at +66, a 7-point increase from last quarter’s +59.
Among social classes, Duterte’s net satisfaction rating among the rich or classes A, B, and C improved by 12 points to an “excellent” +70, but declined among the poor or class E by 11 points to a “very good” +57.
The pollster also found satisfaction with the President declined slightly in both urban and rural areas by 1 point to +66 and 4 points to +64, respectively.
The SWS survey, conducted from Sep. 27 to 30, has a margin of error of ±2.6 percent for national figures.
