
# What Is Daylight Saving Time?

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Leman**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/daylight-saving-time-210800540.html)


        From Popular Mechanics
      
Twice a year, many countries around the globe change their clocks, hoping to make the most out of the day and catch a few extra rays of sun. But Daylight Saving Time is actually a very old idea, which begs the question—do we still need it?
Well, it varies by region. In most of the U.S., daylight saving time gain an hour on the second Sunday in March. On the first Sunday in November, clocks lose an hour and daylight saving time ends.
But the change happens at different times around the world. In Mexico and Denmark, for example, daylight saving time starts on the first Sunday in April and ends on the last Sunday in October. But countries like Indonesia, Iceland, and Egypt don't even observe daylight saving time.
So, if you happen to be traveling, make sure you double check before times.
Contrary to popular lore, Benjamin Franklin did not actually come up with the idea. As an envoy to France, the founding father wrote a satirical letter suggesting Parisians save money by rising at dawn each day after he was roused by the sun at 6 a.m. one morning, according to History. That essay is often cited as the first suggestion of setting clocks forward.
The honor belongs to entomologist George Hudson, who in 1895 proposed setting clocks back by two hours so he could get in my bug hunting in the evening hours, according to National Geographic.
Then, an Englishman named William Willett penned a brochure proposing that residents of the U.K. move their clocks forward by 80 minutes so they could enjoy the extra sunlight. British Parliament rejected this idea, and Willett never lived to see that extra hour of sunlight. (Nor, did he live to see his great, great grandson, Chris Martin of Coldplay, sell out concert stadiums around the world.)

        When Was It First Enacted?
      
Daylight saving time was first enacted on a country-wide scale on April 30, 1916, by Germany during World War I, in an effort to conserve energy during the war. England follow suit and adopted the policy weeks later.
Two years later, on March 31, 1918, the U.S. adopted the policy, too, passing the Standard Time Act in an effort to conserve energy and maximize time spent toward the war effort. Because most of the U.S. was powered by coal, it turned out to be a cost effective measure—but it wasn’t welcomed by all.
At the time, farmers were angered by the changes, History reports. Cows were not ready to be milked by the scheduled shipping time, hired hands worked shorter days and farmers had to wait an extra hour in the morning for dew to evaporate. Their protests led to the repeal of daylight saving time just one year after it was established.
The repeal led to a wild west, of sorts. Some large cities like Chicago and New York, kept daylight saving time, while others only observed half the year. In some cases, the disparities threw travelers for a loop. For example, a 35-mile bus trip from Steubenville, Ohio, to Moundsville, West Virginia would pass through seven different time zones, according to Smithsonian.
Finally, in 1966, Congress passed the Uniform Time Act, which set time standards for the entire country—clocks fall forward on the last Sundays in both April and October, according to Smithsonian. But daylight saving time isn’t exactly observed in a uniform way.
Hawaii, Arizona (excluding the Hopi Nation and parts of the Navajo Nation inside the state) and the U.S. territories do not practice daylight saving time. And in March 2019, Florida passed the Sunshine Protection Act which granted the aptly named Sunshine State an extra hour of sunshine year-round. Several other states, such as Minnesota, Washington, and Utah hope to follow suit.
It all depends on where you live. If you, say, live in Northern Hemisphere, closer to the poles, you may find more benefit as opposed to someone who lives closer to the equator. Near the poles, the seasonal changes are more extreme, thanks to Earth’s axial tilt.
Earth’s poles receive different amounts of sunlight throughout the year. This means that people who live in these regions feel the loss of sunlight, reports National Geographic. Near the equator, these seasonal shifts are less pronounced.
For many, more sunlight means more time outside. More sunlight in the evening means that people are likely to spend more time outdoors. Golf ball sales increased by 20 percent in 1918, the first year of daylight saving, the Washington Post reported at the time.
Still, many Americans aren’t convinced. In March 2013, a Rasmussen Report surveying U.S. residents and revealed that only 37 percent of Americans view daylight saving as “worth the hassle.” A whopping 45 percent do not think the practice is worthwhile.
Surprisingly, there are some risks associated with making the change. Some studies have shown that there could actually be health risks associated with the time change, such as increased traffic accidents and instances of heart attack, according to National Geographic and Reuters.
These days, daylight saving doesn’t actually save all that much money or energy. A 2008 National Bureau of Economic Research study that analyzed the time change in Indiana, noted that while residents used less lights in the evening, they turned up their air conditioning, offsetting any energy savings entirely.
Additionally, several studies have shown Americans actually increase their energy consumption during daylight saving time. The extra hour of daylight often means that people will often head out to do outdoor activities. Often, that involves getting in the car and going for a drive, which burns fuel and released greenhouse gases into the air.

        You Might Also Like
      
