
# Liverpool first and second XIs reviewed amid 'split squad' fixture congestion call

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/liverpool-first-second-xis-reviewed-20785091)

Two different games, two different competitions, two different continents, but only one club.
It couldn't happen could it?
Well in short, probably not.
But the suggestion that Liverpool *could* play their Carabao Cup quarter-final against Aston Villa in Birmingham AND their Club World Cup semi-final almost 4,500 miles away in Qatar on the same day - December 18 - got us thinking.
Just how would that look?
It seems to be far more likely that the Villa tie will move to early January, meaning that the full Liverpool squad will head to Doha in December to try and claim the Reds' first ever Club World Cup.
Jurgen Klopp's side will have to negotiate a December 18 semi-final and a December 21 final if they want to be crowned Club World Champions, before returning to domestic matters with a Premier League fixture at Leicester on Boxing Day.
But if the bizarre occurrence of two games in the same day did happen, who could be in Liverpool's first and second XIs?
We've tried to work it out here.
For a while Reds fans would tell you that it was difficult to work out Klopp's best team, but the German certainly seems to have hit upon a formula that he likes both during the back end of last season and the beginning of this one.
In fact, you need look no further than June's Champions League final for his preferred selection, one which he hasn't yet been able to field this season due to injuries.
Alisson starts in goal, there's a back four of Trent Alexander-Arnold, Joel Matip, Virgil van Dijk and Andy Robertson, with Fabinho anchoring the midfield behind Jordan Henderson and Gini Wijnaldum, even though there are often questions over that trio's creativity.
Ahead of them comes the famed front three of Mohamed Salah, Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mane.
A number of Liverpool's exciting young players are pushing for places in this side, but when the entire squad is laid out there is still an array of more senior stars blocking their path.
Goalkeeper Adrian was an excellent understudy for the injured Alisson at the start of the Premier League season, while centre-backs Dejan Lovren and Joe Gomez have both spent time as Van Dijk's first-choice partner.
James Milner always does a steady job when filling in at left-back, while Ki-Jana Hoever - who is currently at the Under-17 World Cup with the Netherlands - looks a fine talent at right-back.
Adam Lallana, Naby Keita and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain make up an experienced midfield, with Xherdan Shaqiri, the exciting Rhian Brewster and goal hero Divock Origi in attack.
Reds fans want to see more of the club's young talent though, and so it is only right that they get a mention as they strive for more appearances in the senior setup.
Caoimhin Kelleher, Neco Williams, Sepp van den Berg, Curtis Jones and Harvey Elliott all featured in that Arsenal win, and all of them look fine talents.
Don't bet against seeing them again in the next round at Villa, whenever it is.
And even if they aren't, then it won't be long until another fixture comes around.
