
# Tottenham appeal Son Heung-min red card and offer counselling over Andre Gomes injury

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:23:26+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/tottenham-appeal-son-heung-min-20811331)

Tottenham have launched an appeal against Son Heung-min's red card for the tackle which led to Andre Gomes' horrific injury.
Gomes suffered a fracture dislocation of his left ankle with the graphic nature of the injury leaving Son in tears.
He is understood to have been offered counselling by Spurs chiefs as he remains upset over the incident as the club launch an official appeal against the decision to show him a red card.
The innocuous tackle as Gomes looked to attack saw him awkwardly fall into Sergie Aurier, leaving him on the turf screaming in agony.
Referee Martin Atkinson initially reached for a yellow card but, once he realised the outcome of the challenge, brandished a red with Son inconsolable as he was led off the pitch.
A Premier League statement explaining the controversial decision said: "The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
They have now launched an appeal, knowing they could be without Son for upcoming Premier League games against Sheffield United, West Ham and Bournemouth if it is unsuccessful.
Everton skipper Sheamus Coleman visited Son in the dressing room after the game to offer words of support, whilst team-mate Dele Alli, who opened the scoring in the 1-1 draw, gave his reaction to the incident to Sky Sports after the match.
"Didn’t want to look too much at what happened. I want to send best wishes," Alli said.
"Son is devastated and in tears. It’s not his fault. Son is one of nicest people you’ve ever met. He can’t even lift his head up, he’s crying so much.
"The injury does play on your mind but you have to stay professional.
"We switched off for a second and they scored."
