
# How do youth courts in England and Wales function?

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:00:19+00:00**

Author: **Helen Pidd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/03/how-do-youth-courts-in-england-and-wales-function)


        There are differences in how children are prosecuted, who hears cases, and punishments
      
Between 10 and 17. Sometimes 18-year-olds will appear if their case began before their 18th birthday or if they are accused of breaching a referral order imposed before they turned 18.
Youth courts in England and Wales are held in magistrates court buildings. Some have dedicated youth courtrooms, but most use adult courts.
They are not open to the public. Unless a child is deemed particularly dangerous or has been remanded – sent to custody while awaiting trial or sentencing - they should appear in the main part of the courtroom rather than behind bulletproof glass in the dock. In practice, children often also appear in the dock if they have been arrested on a warrant and brought in from a police station overnight.
Cases are either heard by a youth court bench of three or occasionally two magistrates trained in youth justice, or a district judge sitting alone. Magistrates are assisted on matters of law by a legally trained clerk who advises on the sentencing options available to them in each case. No one wears a wig or a formal gown, unlike in the adult crown court.
Children are tried at the crown court in cases of murder, serious firearms offences, some violent or sexual offences, some crimes related to terrorism or anything that would carry a realistic probability of a custodial sentence of more than two years. They also often appear in the crown court if they are accused alongside adults.
Youth court magistrates or district judges have the power to sentence children to up to two years on a “detention and training order”, which means the child spends half of the sentence in custody, in a secure training centre, secure children’s home or young offenders institute; and half outside, under the supervision of the local youth justice service. Children aged 10 and 11 cannot be placed in custody, and there is a prohibition too for those aged 12 to 14 who are not persistent offenders. Custody should be used as a last resort and sentences cannot be less than four months, on the basis that short sentences are ineffective and damaging to children.
Far more often, children are given a youth referral order, a community sentence in which the court “refers” the child to a youth offender panel convened by volunteer members of the community and held at an informal venue. For subsequent offences they can be given a more onerous youth rehabilitation order, which can include one or more of 18 requirements that the offender must comply with for up to three years. Usually this will incorporate some sort of unpaid work and will require them to take up certain activities, and they may be subject to a curfew using an electronic tag.
The court can occasionally include a fostering requirement as part of the order, which will require the child or young person to reside with a local authority foster parent for up to a year. If the child has done something so serious they need to be imprisoned for longer, they will be committed for sentence at the crown court. Children cannot normally be given life sentences. The mandatory sentence for a child convicted of murder is detention at her Majesty’s pleasure, which carries a minimum term of 12 years. The youth court can also impose orders on a child’s parents.
The least serious sentence ipassed in the youth court is an absolute discharge, in which no further action is taken but the child still has a criminal record. There is also a conditional discharge, in which no further action is taken unless they commit a further offence within a timeframe decided by the court, which must not be longer than three years.
If a child has been given a detention and training order of six months or less it becomes “spent” 18 months after the sentence is completed. If their sentence was for more than six months then it will take two years. Some of the most serious convictions, such as rape and murder, remain on record and a child offender will have to continue declaring it to future employers for the rest of their lives.
