
# 7 dining deals to try in Dubai this week

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Time Out Dubai staff**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/restaurants/421443-7-dining-deals-to-try-in-dubai-this-week)

Aperitivo at Torno SubitoMassimo Bottura’s restaurant has a nightly aperitivo offer, featuring two signature mixed drinks and five bites for Dhs125.Dhs125. Daily, 6pm-8pm. W Dubai – The Palm, Palm Jumeirah (04 245 5555).Boodle Fight at C.UGet a pile of seafood and sauces for just Dhs150 to share.Dhs150 (serves two or three). Daily 6pm-11pm. Ongoing. Zabeel House Mini, Al Seef (04 707 7077).Daily Market lunch at BOCATry this weekday lunch, made with fresh ingredients sourced daily from The Waterfront Market.Dhs90 (two courses), Dhs126 (three courses). Sun-Thu noon-3pm. Ongoing. Gate Village 6, DIFC (04 323 1833).Fondue night at VintageLove cheese? Enjoy an evening of unlimited fondue and grape at this bar in Oud Metha.Dhs200. Mon, Tue, Wed, Fri, Sun. 7pm-10pm. Ongoing. Wafi Mall, Oud Metha (04 324 4100).Lunch at Chicago MeatpackersGet a two-course meal plus a glass of grape at this restaurant on Palm Jumeirah’s The Pointe. Plus, it’s only Dhs99.Dhs99. Sun-Thu, noon-4pm. Ongoing. The Pointe, Palm Jumeirah (04 580 7983).Oh so sushi at Karma KaféCouples will get unlimited sushi and dim sum, plus a bottle of grape every Saturday for Dhs329.Dhs329 (per couple) Sat noon-7pm. Ongoing. Souk Al Bahar, Downtown Dubai (04 423 0909).Roast at Pots, Pans & BoardsThis beachside restaurant from British chef Tom Aikens hosts a roast every Sunday.Dhs134. Sun noon-11pm. Ongoing. The Beach, JBR (04 456 1959).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
