
# Police launch probe after Audi is deliberately torched in Glasgow attack

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:08:06+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Morrow, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/daniel-morrow/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/police-launch-probe-after-audi-20816499)

A car was deliberately set alight during an attack in the south side of Glasgow .
The blaze was set on Fauldhouse Way, Oatlands, at 2.50am on Monday, November 4.
A dark coloured saloon car came to a halt before the passenger inside set fire to a black Audi A6 parked outside a home on the street.
Police say that the incident could have been much worse if it weren’t for locals swiftly reporting the attack to the force.
 
Now, Police Scotland are appealing for more information as officers continue their investigation into the incident.
Detective Constable Paul O’Donnell from Cathcart CID said: “Thankfully no one was in the Audi at the time and it didn’t spread to the house, however, if it hadn’t been for the fact that neighbours noticed the flames, then this could easily have escalated.
“The car was badly damaged. At this time we believe that the car was the intended target but we still have to find out why.
"We have been speaking to neighbours and checking CCTV but would still like anyone who may have seen a dark coloured car in the street or driving about the area between 2.30 and 2.50 am to come forward.
"It would have driven off at speed after the attack heading either towards Caledonia Road in to the city or Polmadie heading towards the M74.
“Information about the incident can be passed to Cathcart Police Station via 101. Please quote incident number 0260 of November 4 when calling or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.”
