
# Ross Wilson in Rangers grand entrance as sporting director is front and centre at Hampden

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:19:02+00:00**

Author: **Graeme Young, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/graeme-young/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ross-wilson-rangers-grand-entrance-20801992)

Rangers' sporting director Ross Wilson is ready to get down to business as he was snapped alongside his new team ahead of today's Betfred Cup semi-final with Hearts.
The 36-year-old, who was appointed to the role last month, was pictured in club colours as he spoke with managing director Stewart Robertson ahead of the Hampden showpiece.
Wilson was targeted by the Ibrox side as a replacement for Mark Allen and has been patiently waiting to begin after leaving Southampton .
The Scot spent four years with the Saints and previously turned down Rangers' advances before they made their move Allen in 2017.
And the former Falkirk talent-spotter appears raring to go as he looks to give his side a recruitment edge with Rangers desperate to end Celtic's Scottish football stranglehold.
But he could face some transfer dilemmas with the club announcing an £11m loss during their annual accounts on Friday.
The future of star striker Alfredo Morelos, who has broached an Ibrox exit, will be high up on his agenda.
A victory today for Steven Gerrard 's side will secure a showdown with their city rivals on December 8.
The Liverpool icon spoke last month about his excitement of forging a strong relationship with his new recruitment specialist.
He said: "I've had two or three really long, in-depth conversations, they will remain private.
"I have to give the club credit for a finding replacement and I am really looking forward to working with Ross.
"We can't wait to start the relationship."
