
# The Gareth Barry news that West Brom fans have been waiting to hear

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:53:27+00:00**

Author: **Paul Suart, https://www.facebook.com/West-Brom-reporter-Paul-Suart-1706553162899720/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/gareth-barry-signs-new-west-17195897)

Gareth Barry has finally penned a new contract and can play for West Bromwich Albion after a financial issue with Everton was resolved.
Albion and Everton had been locked in talks for several weeks over the final payment owed to the Merseyside club to extend Barry’s Hawthorns tenure into a third season.
But a breakthrough in the impasse has enabled Barry, 38, to sign a new deal with the Baggies that will run until the end of the season.
“He’s a role model, he’s been there before in big games, has massive experience, massive quality and that’s why we wanted him to sign,” head coach Slaven Bilic said.
“He’s a great example and the best role model for all the young kids who think it’s going to come like this (quickly) without any effort and you have those kids at every club. It’s brilliant for us.”
Barry missed the final few weeks of the last season after undergoing knee surgery.
The way he has battled back to regain full fitness is, Bilic says, testament to his character and drive to continue a glittering career that has seen him win the Premier League and FA Cup with Manchester City, as well as 53 England caps.
“His career has been incredible,” Bilic added. “His desire - words are not necessary there because you have a player with that age and career under his belt.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
“To get injured, more the state of his knee at this stage of his career, not to give up, actually it wouldn’t be that, it would be ‘call it a day’.
“To work hard in a gym that’s very, very boring. You don’t play five-a-side in a gym, you work really hard and then there’s still a big question mark of ‘is it going to work out?’
“It wasn’t guaranteed. For him to go through all that, it speaks volumes and shows how big a professional he is and how hungry he still is.”
Barry has not played since he was replaced an hour into Albion’s 4-0 defeat at Leeds United in March.
Although he was technically released by the Baggies in May at the expiry of his previous contract, before Bilic arrived at West Brom, Barry used the club’s training facilities to aid his rehabilitation before returning to training a few weeks ago.
Despite his age and lack of games, Bilic is confident Barry will not need many matches with the under-23s to get up to speed.
“He’s been training with us and he looks good,” the Croatian said. “He has to play two or three games, but not eight or 10 for the under-23s to get that (fitness).
“To put the shin pads on, to put the jersey on, to see the referees. He needs it. Probably less than other guys but he needs it. Everybody needs this.
“There are no short-cuts for sharpness. That 10 per cent is crucial and makes a difference.”
Albion made no initial payment when they signed Barry from Everton in the summer of 2017, agreeing instead to pay a set sum for each appearance – with the total fee capped at £1.5million.
Despite making 55 appearances, that fee was never reached, leaving the clubs slightly in limbo over finances and Barry’s future contractually.
 
Barry could have signed for any other club on a free transfer over the summer hence why Albion felt their payment plan with Everton had expired.
Everton saw things differently and dug their heels in for a nominal final payment which has now been settled.
