
# Jurgen Klopp insists Liverpool are not even thinking about looming clash with Man City

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-insists-liverpools-focus-20810955)

Perhaps the strangest thing about Pep Guardiola’s mini Sadio Mane rant, was how he jumped straight to next weekend, completely bypassing a crucial Champions’ League midweek.
For Jurgen Klopp, there is no such luxury. He was blunt - and perhaps pointed - in spelling out on Monday that Liverpool ’s European encounter with Genk is the only thing on his mind at the moment.
In part, he seemed to suggest, that’s because he doesn’t have the cunning to engage in such extended mind games: "I am just not…I don’t understand these types of things. My brain is not big enough to think about another team as well,” he said.
“Tomorrow we play Genk. That deserves all my attention, and gets it. That is the only way I can do it. After that we can speak about Manchester City !”
For Klopp, there is actually a practical aspect to his focus. If Guardiola is untroubled by the threat of Atalanta, then the Liverpool boss is far less dismissive of his own opponents Genk.
He accepts Liverpool are supposed to beat them, of course - “They are here to try and take their chance because everyone expects us to win” - but he also knows victory could have a huge impact on Liverpool’s season.
It would take the Reds to nine points in Group E, and depending on Salzburg’s result in the other game, would put them on the verge of qualifying for the knock out phase.
Given a fixture list crowded by the World Club Championship, that would be a huge bonus for Klopp in allowing him to rest players, and he knows it. “we cannot waste time,” he said with a steely resolve.
“I don’t think we can (quite) do it (qualify) tomorrow but we have to make a big step. We are at home, we have another home game against Napoli and we have to make the next step - that is all we will think about.”
That means a balancing act for the manager. On the one hand, playing his strongest side to guarantee victory could give valuable midweeks off at the end of November early December. On the other, he has City at the weekend.
The priority this season is surely the title, but it is tough to know which team selection on Tuesday will have the greater long term impact. Ideally, Klopp would like to rest players against Genk, but he said:
“Many changes? I don’t know. I will I have to talk to the medical department and all the boys. Tuesday-Sunday is not a problem, Saturday-Tuesday is more of a problem. It looks like everyone is fine.
“We will have to see how it is today. I have to make some decisions and it is very important in a game like this that you have fresh legs as well. We have tried now a couple of things and it worked out. They deserve to get more rhythm. We will see.
“I don’t know 100percent about the line-up at the moment. Alisson will play, that’s all I know at this stage. which is why he is selected for the press conference!”
Klopp looks certain to rest Mo Salah, who is struggling with an issue that requires fluid draining from his ankle. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will come in, and Joe Gomez too looks likely to start.
