
# Disney+ will be on Amazon Fire TV starting Nov. 12

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:50:01+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/disney-will-be-amazon-fire-tv-starting-nov-12?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: CordCutters
      
Amazon today announced that Disney+ — the upcoming streaming service from Disney that'll be home to everything from Star Wars to every Marvel movie to, of course, Disney fare — will be available on Amazon Fire TV devices on launch day, Nov. 12.
Amazon was the lone holdout from the initial slate of supported devices. While it didn't break down the exact devices that would be supported, Amazon did say to expect it on "Fire TV streaming devices, Fire TV Edition smart TVs, and compatible Fire Tablets.
And because Fire TV is, well, fire TV, you'll be able to use your voice to control Disney+. All you'll have to do is say "Alexa, open Disney Plus," and she'll fire up Disney+ on your Fire TV. Amazon also says that Disney+ content will be included in Fire TV's universal search, so you can tell Alexa to play specific shows, too.
Disney+ will intiially be available in the United States, Canada and the Netherlands. It'll launch on Nov. 19 in Australia and New Zealand.
All the shows in all the places
Disney+ is home to all things Disney, Star Wars, Marvel and more, when it launches on Nov. 12. It'll be available on pretty much every hardware platform you can think of.
Get this if you don't like wasting money
The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K has all the features and specs that you need, and none of the stuff you don't. And it still costs less than $50.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        Disney+ in 4K Which 4K TV should you get to enjoy your new Disney+ subscription? Disney+ is here and we have found some of the best 4K TVs that you should consider if you want to get the best playback quality with your new Disney+ subscription.
      
