
# Aprilia unveils RS 660, Tuono 660 concept at EICMA 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:42:00+00:00**

Author: **Vishal Venugopal**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/aprilia-unveils-rs-660-tuono-660-concept-at-eicma-2019-414788)

The RS 660 is a middleweight supersport that weighs 169kg and produces 100hp.
At EICMA 2019, the Piaggio group had models from its portfolio of brands – Aprilia, Moto Guzzi, Vespa and Piaggio – on display. However, the stars of the show were the two new mid-capacity motorcycles – the production-ready RS 660 supersport and the naked Tuono 660 concept, which will debut in 2021. 

        Aprilia RS 660
      
The RS 660 concept was first showcased at EICMA 2018, and it immediately became one of the most anticipated middleweight supersport bikes in the world. What a lot of us will be pleased with is the fact that the bike revealed yesterday looks nearly identical to the concept – the sharp bodywork and sporty stance remains nearly the same, with the only differences coming in the form of mandatory components like the extended rear fender.
The RS 660 is powered by an all-new 660cc parallel-twin that produces 100hp. Torque figures haven’t been revealed, yet, but we do know that the bike will tip the scales at just 169kg, making for a rather impressive power-to-weight ratio. The rest of the bike has been developed from the ground up as well, with a new, lightweight aluminium frame and swingarm. 
The RS 660 also sports a comprehensive package that’s derived from the one on the flagship RSV4. It includes a five-mode traction control system that’s assisted by a six-axis IMU, Aprilia Traction Control, Aprilia Wheelie Control, a quickshifter, engine brake control, and five self-explanatory riding modes – Commute, Individual, Dynamic, Challenge, and Time Attack. The electronics also include cruise control. 

        Aprilia Tuono 660 Concept
      
Aprilia also gave us something to look forward to at next year’s show with the Tuono 660, which is essentially a naked RS 660. It will use the same 660cc parallel-twin, but will produce a tad less power, at 95hp. We could also see a difference in the way this power is delivered, considering it isn’t as track-oriented as the RS 660. The chassis and hardware will be borrowed from the RS 660 as well.
The RS 660 should go on sale soon; prices for it haven’t been disclosed yet. Will the middleweight supersport make its way to India? There’s no need of it yet, but it's certainly a bike that enthusiasts here will appreciate.
