
# The best VR deals of November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:48:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Painter**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/game/best-vr-deals-3665170/)

2018 saw some massive price cuts on virtual reality equipment, as both the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift dropped in price by hundreds of pounds in efforts to lure more customers into their ecosystems, and with the release of new headsets in 2019 including the Oculus Rift S and Vive Cosmos, this trend has continued. 
The end result is that VR is more affordable than ever before. We've done our best to sort through the best offers around on VR headsets and games to help you get the best price.

        PlayStation VR Starter PackFrom: eBuyerNow: £249.98View Deal
      

        PlayStation VRFrom: The Game CollectionNow: £199.95View Deal
      

        Oculus Rift SFrom: AmazonNow: £399View Deal
      

        HTC ViveFrom: ArgosNow: £499.99View Deal
      
HTC Vive ProFrom: BoxWas: £799.99Now: £669.99  (£130 off) View Deal< >
For ease, we're going to break down the sort of deals you can expect to see by platform.
Despite being the cheapest of the VR sets on the market right now, we've seen impressive discounts and bundles for the PSVR headset, cameras and games.
If you're looking to buy the headset itself, the best bet is to go for one of the various bundles, which tend to include the headset, the PlayStation Camera (which you need to run the headset), and a game or two. Also keep an eye out for the optional (but fun) Move controllers, and remember you'll still need a PS4 or PS4 Pro to play it all on.
if you already have a headset, you can still find discounts on games - especially the launch titles that are now looking slightly less polished than more recent games.
Vive saw a massive price drop in 2018, from £759 down to £499, and was recently discontinued by HTC, but it's still one of the most expensive consumer-focused VR set on the market. You've also got the standalone Vive Cosmos, akin to the Oculus Quest, but it's not cheap at £699.
Remember that you'll need a decent-spec PC to power the VR experience - if you don't have one, keep an eye on gaming PC deals - any high-end rig will run VR well, though some specifically advertise themselves as 'VR-ready' now to show they meet the required specs for Vive and Oculus.
The Oculus Rift S was released earlier in 2019 as a replacement to the original Oculus Rift, and boasts the same attractive £399 price tag despite the various upgrades on offer. 
Look out for bundles including the hardware, controllers, and games - if they drop below the £400 with games included, it's worth considering.
Games themselves also get discounts, so check out the likes of Steam, the Oculus Store and Green Man Gaming. And, as with the Vive, remember to look out for bargains on VR-ready PCs too, if you don't have one yet.
For all of these platforms, Amazon has some of the biggest bargains.

        From: eBuyerNow: £249.98View Deal
      
If you want to get into PlayStation VR, this is a decent place to start. The Starter Bundle includes the PlayStation VR headset along with the PlayStation V2 camera and VR Worlds, a VR demo game with a number of mini-games and experiences.
You'll still need to buy the motion controllers, though! 

        From: The Game CollectionNow: £199.95View Deal
      
This is the cheapest we've found the PlayStation VR headset, but it's worth noting that it doesn't come with the PlayStation Camera which is required for use. It's a good deal for those that still have an old PlayStation Camera laying around and want to get into the world of virtual reality, but those without might want to look at a larger bundle. 

        From: AmazonNow: £399View Deal
      
While it may not be discounted, we couldn't not mention the Oculus Rift S. The 2019 model offers a significant upgrade over the original and cements its place as one of the most advanced (and budget-friendly) PC-based VR headsets on the market.
It boasts upgraded optics, enhanced design and inside-out tracking - find out more in our full Oculus Rift S review. 

        From: ArgosNow: £499.99View Deal
      
The HTC Vive has been officially discontinued by HTC, so it's only a matter of time before discount hardware begins appearing at retailers. That hasn't happened just yet, but if you want to invest in the Vive ecosystem right now, this is the best price you'll find online.

        From: BoxWas: £799.99Now: £669.99  (£130 off) View Deal
      
If you've already got the HTC Vive and want to upgrade your virtual experience, you can pick up the Vive Pro headset from Box with £130 off the £799.99 RRP.
It's worth noting that this deal is for the headset only - you'll have to buy the base stations and controllers separately if you don't already have an HTC Vive system. 
Click here for the best Samsung deals and Samsung voucher codes.
