
# Cops asked to donate P195K for quake victims

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:37:04+00:00**

Author: **Alfred P. Dalizon**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/metro/cops-asked-donate-p195k-quake-victims)

Gamboa said that the voluntary donation will be sent to help victims of the earthquake in Regions 10, 11 and 12. At the same time, he said that the PNP national headquarters will be taking care of policemen who were also affected by the quakes.
Gen. Gamboa said he has asked all financial institutions servicing the PNP to offer “soft loans” or “zero-interest loans” to the policemen victims. “We will take care of our own while the money to be donated by our personnel will be sent to our constituents,” he explained.
Gamboa has ordered concerned police units to determine the extent of damage to their facilities so that they can be immediately addressed.
He said that in Region 12 alone, at least 77 policemen turned out to be earthquake victims too.
Gen. Gamboa said that public safety, rescue and relief operations went underway simultaneously with their ‘Undas’ holiday security operations in Socksargen and Northern and Southern Mindanao regions.
The official said that PNP units in Regions 10, 11 and 12 fielded 2,756 personnel for search, rescue and relief operations in earthquake-affected areas, including 30 evacuation centers that are currently housing some 29,000 persons in Davao and Socksargen regions.
Gen. Gamboa said that Criminal Investigation and Detection Group field offices and local PNP units in the   three regions are also supporting Department of Trade and Industry and local government unit operations to strictly enforce a price freeze on basic commodities and essential goods in areas declared under a state of calamity pursuant to Republic Act 7581or the PriceAct.
He said that the law provides stable prices within the next 60 days on canned sardines, processed milk, bottled water, locally manufactured instant noodles, coffee, detergent soap, bread, candles, salt, rice, corn, and cooking oil, fuel, fresh pork, beef, poultry meat, fresh and dried fish and other marine products, fresh eggs, fresh milk, fresh vegetables, fresh fruits, root crops and sugar.
