
# Jose Mourinho has already hinted he would return Mesut Ozil to Arsenal's starting XI

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:22:41+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jose-mourinho-already-hinted-would-20787152)

Jose Mourinho has been linked with the Arsenal manager's job in recent weeks as pressure continues to build on Unai Emery.
The Gunners manager isn't in immediate danger of losing his job, and recently received the backing from board that his position is safe.
But Arsenal have looked unconvincing in all competitions this season and fans are starting to get on the Spaniard's back.
Mourinho has been out of work since he was sacked by Manchester United back in 2018.
He has continually hinted that he wants to return to football management at some point, and is reportedly keen on taking the reins of a Premier League club.
The alleged reason for this is he wants to become the first man to win major trophies with three different clubs in the English top flight.
Arsenal is the club where he'd most likely achieve his dream, but he'll have to bide his time.
Mourinho has been keeping himself occupied by providing analysis on Sky Sports this season, and has previously spoken out on how he'd fix things at Arsenal.
Explaining how he'd bridge the gap between midfield and attack back in September, the Portuguese hinted he would bring the ostracised Mesut Ozil in from the cold if he was in charge.
"At Arsenal, Lacazette doesn't have that quality [to drop between the lines and create space for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang], but they have two options," said Mourinho.
"One is to play, instead of with three midfield players almost in a straight line, to play how they played in the last 10 or 20 minutes with two [sitting midfielders] and one No.10 that can feed the three without bringing Lacazette in between the lines."
World Cup winner Ozil is without doubt the best No. 10 at Arsenal, but a player who has been largely overlooked this season.
He has played just three times in all competitions this season, representing the Gunners just once in the Premier League despite being the club's biggest earner.
Last time out Ozil started in the Carabao Cup against Liverpool , and put in a man of the match display with two assists and kick-starting a move for a third.
But he was hooked in the second half, with Matteo Guendouzi taking his place on the pitch.
