
# Tributes to David May - Argyle fan, mod, journalist and artist

Published at: **2019-11-06T18:48:12+00:00**

Author: **Peter Chapman**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/local-news/tributes-david-argyle-fan-mod-3506641)

David May was born in Plymouth in 1948. His father, John, was a master builder and his mother, Gwynneth, ran soft furnishings at the Co-op. He was educated at Hyde Park School.
A fantastic obituary in The Times chronicled his incredible life and is worth reading. A quick look in our archives provided a bit more information about his youth.
Local historian Chris Robinson spoke to David in 2012. I asked Chris if he could dig out the images, he said he was 'happy to do this for the late mod.'
David May and his mate, Rob Partridge, were pioneering Plymouth mods. They regularly used to hang out in venues like the Quay Club, then the Purple Fez and the Van Dike Club, as well as the El Sombrero coffee bar.
At the time of the interview, David said: "It was the place on a Saturday for teenagers who had any artistic or beat pretensions.
“On Saturday nights, mainly in the summer, we used to meet up outside the post office at St Andrew’s Cross. Up to 100 mods, girls and boys. The scooter mods would show off by driving around St Andrew’s roundabout or line up their machines outside the post office.
“We used to get suits made up at Burtons for £9. Rob Partridge and I would buy fabric from old tailors to get them made up and then swap them so it looked like we had big wardrobes.
“In the early days, when the Carnaby Street fashion hadn’t reached here, we used to swap shirts. One London mod, I think called Rick, had a black polka dot and green shirt with long collar points.
"I think at least four of us wore that one, and it could get pretty grubby by the time it reached the last wearer!
“I would also say that we found that in order to get the right backcombed hair look for a Saturday night Rob and I used to get ours washed, rollered and set in a woman’s hairdressers – either by or beneath Burtons and we’d wear a hair net to keep it in place! This did cause some looks in the town.
"We used to drive to the 400 club in Torquay on Saturday nights when nothing much seemed to be happening in Plymouth. We would wear Levi’s and sports or t-shirts for the drive and change into our suits, shirts and ties in the gents on the seafront.
“It was very important that our clothes looked fresh and sharp as we went into the 400. First impressions for all those London girls that came down on holiday.”
David added that as far as he can recall, the mod scene was not all that big down here and lasted from late 64 through to 65. It then transformed into the hippy/flower power movement of 66-67.
Here are some of the notable points of his career from that article: "At the relatively tender age of 28, May became news editor of The Sunday Times. He also worked for the newspaper’s Insight team, the country's top investigative showcase. Investigation was his life’s blood and his self-image remained that of a sleuth.
"In 1982, after leaving The Sunday Times, he moved to ITN, working as a journalist on News at 10 and subsequently Channel 4 News, as well as making campaigning documentaries.
"The 1990s marked his transition away from journalism into PR, joining the Coalition agency as a partner. He also helped to launch Channel 5.
"In 2001 the BBC announced that it had enticed May to come on board. He pioneered the use of huge screens around the country for significant sporting and cultural events, among them the 2012 Olympics.
"He retired in 2013, as much as so effervescent a figure could retire, wrote a spy novel and, closing a circle, finally attended Plymouth College of Art to do a degree. He was awarded a first.
"Reflecting on his wild days in the Swinging Sixties, May said: “There was good music, dope, sex and, above all, non-conformity. There was an intensity to it all that I never imagined was going to go away. Nothing shocked me more than the realisation that it did, in the end, all go away.”
His time at Plymouth College of Art was spent with his friend Alan Qualtrough, who posted this moving tribute on Facebook: "My close friend David May has sadly passed away and in an instant, we’ve lost a brilliant person and artist.
"I will miss everything we shared during the past 18 years from our love of art, to Plymouth Argyle (and pasties), family events, our experience of a career in national journalism and our recent years at Plymouth College of Art.
"It was a deep friendship that meant so much to both of us. David died suddenly within months of finishing his degree.
"In the final year he studied the mystical images of painter Cecil Collins and developed a unique en plein air painting using the natural elements such as rain as part of his painting process.
"The results were awesome, and he deservedly attained a 1st. His work in the PCA 2019 show was in my opinion the best in the room. His painting practice has been described as “tangible, endlessly open and seemingly inexhaustible,” and he had so much further to take it.
"David’s death was always going to be hard to come to terms with, but it is now so much harder because of the potential that is lost to make more beautiful paintings. RIP David May (1948-2019)."

        David May, investigative journalist, was born on December 13, 1948. He died of leukaemia on October 27, 2019, aged 70.
      
