
# TikTok inspires Singapore’s next-generation leaders to act on Sustainable Development through the #Zerowaster Challenge

Published at: **2019-11-07T20:12:47+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Netto**

Original: [The Online Citizen](https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2019/11/08/tiktok-inspires-singapores-next-generation-leaders-to-act-on-sustainable-development-through-the-zerowaster-challenge/)

TikTok, the leading destination for short-form mobile video, is partnering with Global Initiatives to launch the environment-themed #zerowaster challenge in Singapore from 8-10 November 2019.
By offering a home for creative expression, TikTok sees millions of creators around the world showcasing their authentic selves and incredible skills every day. The #zerowaster campaign is set to mobilize TikTok’s creative community in Singapore and around the world, aiming to inspire and encourage a new generation to take action towards sustainable development.
With increasing concerns about the costs of climate change, Singapore is boosting its efforts in tackling climate change. More ground-up movements are being initiated within local communities, with the aim of changing behaviour, such as using less plastic items.
The #zerowaster challenge encourages Singaporeans to produce zero waste over the course of one to three days, and share those experiences on TikTok.
Creators will also publish educational TikTok videos with examples and tips on how to lead a zero-waste lifestyle. As part of the partnership, Global Initiatives will also mobilize a global network of students from universities around the world to join this campaign, using their creative ideas to engage followers on TikTok and activate support for a sustainable future.
“Increasingly we are seeing the youth step up and take charge to address the most urgent environmental issues like eliminating waste and addressing climate change. The sustainability movement is gaining traction and young people are an important force behind this,” said Kim Stengert, Chief of Strategic Communications at Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF).
“We have to act now. Embracing the circular economy approach will be critical for us to move towards a sustainable future and protect our environment and natural resources,” commented Isabelle Louis, Deputy Director of U.N. Environment Programme Asian Pacific Regional Office (UNEP).
The top ten #zerowaster submissions will be featured at the Responsible Business Forum (RBF) on Sustainable Development, before an audience of over 300 business and sustainability leaders from around the world.
The Responsible Business Forum is organised by Global Initiatives, in partnership with global organisations such as the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and World Business Council For Sustainable Development (WBCSD).
The forum will be held on 18 to 19 November in Singapore. These highlights from the #zerowaster campaign are set to inspire individuals across generations and institutions to commit to a zero-waste lifestyle.
Understanding the importance of this message, local TikTok content creators and influencers are also showing their support for the challenge:
“As a popular short form video platform, TikTok has become an important tool for raising awareness and activating support for social causes. I am very excited about the #zerowaster campaign and how this will galvanise youth to play an even greater role towards achieving zero waste,” added Tony Gourlay, CEO of Global Initiatives.
