
# Braid: Alberta's ugly separatist past has no place in today's debate

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:28:12+00:00**

Author: **Don Braid, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/politics/braid-albertas-ugly-separatist-past-has-no-place-in-todays-debate)

Roger Epp and I shared some bad flashbacks Monday.
We were both at the infamous western separatist rally of Nov. 20, 1980, where Alberta Liberal Leader Nick Taylor, who dared to disagree, was insulted, spat at and rushed when he was on the stage.
Epp was then a reporter at the Lethbridge Herald. Later he had the sense to become a distinguished academic at the University of Alberta. On the weekend, he wrote a piece for the Globe and Mail detailing his feelings about that wild meeting at Edmonton’s Jubilee Auditorium.
His article sure triggered me, to use the current buzzword.
Epp was right at the front when Doug Christie, the genuinely fascist self-appointed leader of the Western Canada Concept, raged about the evil media in tones we now hear from the White House.
“I’d never experienced anything like it,” Epp told me. “I didn’t have a category to put it in.”
Neither did I. I still don’t, except in relation to, say, the Nuremberg rallies.
So here’s a plea to the people trying to launch a Wexit party — do not be like that.
For the good of us all, don’t use genuine feelings of anger and alienation as a tool to amplify hatred and division. Eject racists and extremists from your midst right now if you hope to have any credibility.
Just as important, try dealing with real issues, such as this:
Does your separatism apply to First Nations in Alberta? What if they don’t want to join the march to somewhere else?
Because if that happens, you are open to the argument Pierre Trudeau once made about Quebec separatism.
He said that once a province decides Canada is divisible, that province becomes divisible too.
The Edmonton urban area would not support separatism. I don’t think Calgary would either. Nor would vast reaches of First Nations territory, with all their flawed but essential relations with Ottawa.
This separated Alberta would thus be a fragment of today’s province — unless, of course, everyone was somehow coerced into separating against their will.
The 1980s separatism movements never dealt with questions like that. The leaders were great at making arcane arguments that Canada didn’t legally exist. They were brilliant at whipping up anger.
But they had no credible economic or political plan. Their best result was just under 12 per cent of the popular vote in the 1982 election. Western Canada Concept won no seats and soon faded away.
It was scary for a while, though. I was at the back of the crowd in November 1980, almost exactly a month after Pierre Trudeau’s Liberals introduced the hated National Energy Program.
The anger was widespread, genuine and justified, given the terms of the NEP.
But at the Jubilee, where 2,700 people raged and surged, the fury ran right out of control.
My most vivid memory is of Taylor, who had debated Christie, walking proudly toward the exit, his head high, as fists shook and insults flew.
In the true fashion of an aspiring strongman, Christie had offered him a bodyguard to escort him out. Taylor bravely told him where to deposit his militia.
“It was a little fearsome,” Taylor told me a few years later. “It was the only time I’ve ever felt some concern for my safety.
“People were rushing down the aisles at the stage. One guy tried to spit at me.”
Taylor actually dared to defend the NEP. He said companies could thrive under it.
That was nervy, and hardly anybody in the oilpatch agreed. But at least Taylor has the guts to face down a mob.
Taylor, now 92, told me Monday he spends half-days at his office, managing his oil and oilsands interests in Alberta and mining stakes in Ontario and Manitoba. He’s still making money at it, he says.
I asked him if he thinks Wexit will succeed where WCC didn’t.
“No, I’m not worried,” he said. “There’s just no future for a landlocked province to be independent. The wheat, the oil — where the hell are you going to sell it?”
Epp wonders if Premier Jason Kenney can contain Wexit with his plan to hold hearings on constitutional reform around the province.
“I’m not sure he can capture the momentum,” Epp says, noting that he doesn’t believe Kenney is fomenting separatism. Rather, “he’s trying to figure out how to position himself.”
Three things could deflate the new separatist drive.
One is economic recovery. Good luck with that, at least in the short term.
Another is genuine moves from Ottawa to reform federal arrangements with Alberta and the West.
But the surest death for separatism will be at the hands of Wexit itself, if this movement behaves the way its ancestors did in the 1980s.

        Don Braid’s column appears regularly in the Calgary Herald.
      

        dbraid@postmedia.com
      
Twitter: @DonBraid
Facebook: Don Braid Politics
