
# Jurgen Klopp brands Divock Origi a 'Liverpool legend' ahead of Genk clash

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:28:21+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-brands-divock-origi-20809606)

Jurgen Klopp has described Divock Origi as a “ Liverpool legend”.
Origi wrote his name into Anfield folklore by scoring the crucial goal as the Reds produced one of the greatest shocks in Champions League history to secure a 4-3 aggregate win against Barcelona in last season’s semi-finals.
He followed that up by netting in the final as Liverpool beat Tottenham to lift their sixth European crown.
Origi has failed to nail down a regular place in the team since Klopp took charge more than four years ago but his contributions are not lost on the German.
When asked about the striker’s former club Genk’s illustrious track record of former players including Kevin De Bruyne and Kalidou Koulibaly, Klopp said: “Divock Origi too, don’t forget him.
“Liverpool legend, he’s quite famous here.”
Liverpool host Genk on Tuesday evening in their fourth match of the Champions League group stage.
The Reds are overwhelming favourites to pick up all three points so Klopp could shuffle his pack to cope with their jam-packed fixture list, with title rivals Manchester City next up in the Premier League on Sunday.
“We will hopefully have a couple of fresh legs in,” he said at his pre-match press conference.
“It’s clear that we want that, but it’s not like we will do so many changes that you cannot recognise our team anymore and think ‘who is that?’.
“No, this period was absolutely OK because we made changes against Arsenal , we had to, then we played Aston Villa, now we have to look a little bit at what we do tomorrow night. But then we have enough time to prepare for City.”
