
# Jaejoong's First Appearance at a University Festival in Japan, You are all young, aren't you? + Japanese Netizens React

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:38:00+00:00**

Author: **Suspiria77**

Original: [allkpop](https://www.allkpop.com/article/2019/11/jaejoongs-first-appearance-at-a-university-festival-in-japan-you-are-all-young-arent-you-japanese-netizens-react)

On November 2, Jaejoong made a special guest appearance at the fashion show held at the Aoyama Gakuin University Festival in Omotesando, Tokyo. He told the audience, "You are so young, aren't you?" He said that he lived near the university about 10 years ago. "I miss it. At that time I didn't understand Japanese and I was talking to various people at a coffee shop to study Japanese.”On this day, Jaejoong sang 2 songs -Future Forecast and Forget Me Not- from his cover album 'Love Covers'.Japanese netizens' reactions:1.[+5477, -97] Even though the relationship between Japan and Korea is complicated, I think that he is a wonderful person and loves Japan
2.[+3968, -94] You are young, too
3.[+2225, -89] I want you to appear at 'Question for One Hundred Million People!' and 'Ladder's Journey' again. It's fun and your resistance to alcohol is interesting
4.[+1093, -35] I think it's hard work in Japan for Koreans because of the worsening relationship between Japan and Korea but Jaejoong is active here and likes Japan. He's fluent in Japanese and his talk is interesting. Also his voice is great.
5.[+1090, -41] His fans are mostly older people. I find it interesting. Now I hope those younger people will be your fan!
6.[+1082, -34] He's great at singing. He's fluent in Japanese and had a lot of trouble here
7.[+996, -30] He's so cute. What keeps him alive is the vitality to do such a fine job.
8.[+958, -29] Jaejoong's songs are really great. Thank you so much.
9.[+935, -30] After the split, I've been supporting TVXQ's 2 members but I'd like to support Jaejoong too. . He's great at singing and that's a fact.
10.[+927, -23] Which Hallyu star can be a bridge between Japan and Korea? Only Jaejoong can. He has always worked hard. Show me another Korean star who can do what Jaejoong does. His voice is wonderful. I want you to do your best in this complicated situation.Source: Yahoo! News
