
# Co Down man's love of boxing attracts celebrity and sporting interest

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **SUZANNE MCGONAGLE**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/co-down-man-s-love-of-boxing-attracts-celebrity-and-sporting-interest-1758439/)

A CO Down man's love of boxing is attracting the attention of celebrities and sporting stars.
Conor McMullan (34) from Castlewellan set up an Instagram page dedicated to the history of boxing more than a year ago.
He said his aim was to look back at the world's boxing history and educate new generations about former boxing champions in a bid to keep the memories "alive".
But recently his page, entitled 'holygrailboxing', has taken on a new level of interest.
Numerous boxing names and even an American rapper and record producer are now among more than 17,000 followers of his social media page.
Mr McMullan said 25 ex-world champions now follow his boxing musings, including Panamanian former professional boxer Roberto Duran, ex-three-time world heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis, American former professional boxer Larry Holmes and former unified world heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
Music star LL Cool J, who hails from a boxing family, is also among his followers.
Mr McMullan said what had began as "just a wee hobby" was now spiralling.
"I have always followed boxing from when I was a young child," he said.
"I set the page up about 14 to 15 months ago, mostly just to show old boxing pictures and to write about the history of boxing and to educate people, especially younger generations about former boxing champions - I wanted to be able to keep the memories alive.
"I've been collecting photographs of fighters over the years and I write up their history, which people seem to be really interested in.
"The first couple of months, I got a good following.
"Then I started to get famous boxers following too from Lennox Lewis to Roberto Duran and then there are celebrities also such as LL Cool J. On Sunday, Anthony Joshua followed me and sent me a couple of private messages to say he loves what I'm doing.
"I've been overwhelmed to be recognised by boxers and celebrities, it's a great feeling to know they are following my page."
Mr McMullan added: "Boxing has been sort of quiet for the past few years, but it is very popular at the minute, it's definitely growing.
"At the minute, I have a reach of 80,000 to 250,000 followers every six days. I'm also getting 350,000 to 500,000 impressions every six days - it's crazy.
"I'm hoping this is a way of spreading the history of boxing and introducing it to younger generations, educating them about famous boxers from years gone by."
