
# Nigel Farage confirms he won't stand as MP at general election 2019

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:41:08+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/nigel-farage-confirms-wont-stand-17192114)

Nigel Farage says he will not stand to be an MP at the general election.
The Brexit Party leader launched the party's campaign on Friday but has now confirmed he won't stand himself.
He confirmed he wouldn't make an eight bid to become an MP while speaking to Andrew Marr.
When asked if he was going to stand in the upcoming election, the Brexit Party leader told Marr: "I've thought very hard about this, how do I serve the cause of Brexit best, because that's what I'm doing this for.
"Not for a career, I don't want to be in politics for the rest of my life.
 
"Do I find a seat to try get myself into parliament or do I serve the cause better traversing the length and breadth of the United Kingdom supporting 600 candidates, and I've decided the latter course is the right one."
He added: "It's very difficult to do both. It's very difficult to be in a constituency every day and at the same time be out across the United Kingdom."
On Friday Mr Farage begged Boris Johnson for a "leave alliance" which could see the Tories and the Brexit Party join forces to try and sink Jeremy Corbyn's bid to become PM.
That, he claimed, could involve up to 150 Tory candidates stepping aside in Labour seats that have never voted Tory - in exchange for the Brexit Party not contesting other Tory seats.
 
Boris Johnson has ruled out any alliance between the two right-wing parties.
Speaking about Mr Johnson's Brexit deal, Mr Farage told the Sunday Times it was like a piece of cheese.
"When you get it out of the fridge, it's really appetising and delicious for a few days, but after a couple of weeks it stinks and is inedible."
