
# Baby girl's 'cold' turns into life-threatening heart condition

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:43:29+00:00**

Author: **Katie Dickinson, Rom Preston-Ellis**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/baby-girls-cold-turns-life-3497208)

A mum has spoken of her horror after what she thought was just 'a case of the sniffles' for her baby turned into a life-threatening heart condition.
Chloe Lavan, 24, lived through every parent's worst nightmare when four-month-old Evie's heart function plummeted to just three per cent.
After almost two weeks battling for every breath in  Newcastle's Freeman Hospital , Evie has pulled through and has been able to go home with mum Chloe, dad David Green, and one-year-old brother Theodore.
Now Chloe has relived her weeks of hell as she launches a fundraising drive for the "amazing" hospital ward that saved her baby's life, reports Chronicle Live.
Like most parents, Chloe was used to her children getting coughs and colds in winter.
But when Evie started getting her first cold-like symptoms around four weeks ago, she went to the doctor to see if it was anything more serious.
"You can never be too careful," said Chloe, 24.
"But they just said it was a viral infection."
Chloe and David took Evie back when her symptoms didn't improve, and she was diagnosed with bronchilitis.
The family, from Middlesbrough, were in and out of hospital over the next few days as Evie became breathless, pale and suffered from coughing fits and cold hands and feet.
Chloe said: "We got an emergency appointment with a doctor who rang an ambulance straight away because of her breathing.
"That could have saved her life, it scares me to think what might have happened if he hadn't done that."
Evie went to the James Cook Hospital, where a scan showed that she had an enlarged heart, and she was transferred to the Freeman Hospital for specialist care.
She was later diagnosed with myocarditis - a condition Triggered by simple viral infections that in serious cases can lead to heart failure.
"I'd never heard of it in my life and I think it's something parents aren't really aware of," Chloe said.
"I've got a little boy as well and he's had coughs and colds all the time but we never considered that could ever happen.
"Thankfully she's doing so well on medication she's been discharged, but this isn't the end of the road.
"We'll still have to come back weekly to see if there's any improvement, and either she'll be on medication for life or she'll need a heart transplant.
"It's very worrying but we can't believe how well she's done considering how bad her heart function is - at one point it was three per cent which is quite dangerous."
Chloe has now started an online fundraising page for the Children's Heart Unit Fund at the Freeman Hospital.
She said: "My main aim for this is to raise money for an amazing ward who do such wonderful things with children and I’m so grateful for everything they have done and will continue to do for my daughter.
"I want to raise funds to help get more money and more awareness in that sort of area, because I had no idea how many children have heart problems."
To donate go to the Go Fund Me page.
