
# Fuming Gorka Marquez's sly swipe at Strictly bosses after being snubbed for Kevin Clifton

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:23:13+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/fuming-gorka-marquezs-sly-swipe-17191780)

Strictly Come Dancing's Gorka Marquez has made his feelings known after he was snubbed by the BBC One show.
Gorka was in the running to replace Neil Jones as Alex Scott's partner on the show, it has emerged.
But the pro - who wasn't partnered with anybody for this current series of the show - missed out.
Instead, the former Arsenal footballer and BBC pundit was paired with Kevin Clifton after Neil's injury.
Kevin was already given one chance this series, being paired with Anneka Rice.
But the Strictly duo were given the boot early on - and many thought Kevin's time on the show in 2019 was up.
 
But Neil's injury has meant Kevin has partnered Alex two weeks in a row.
And Gorka isn't happy.
The partner of former Emmerdale actress Gemma Atkinson who he met on the show in 2017, has been retweeting messages from fans saying he should be Neil's stand-in.
"@gorkamarquez1would of been PERFECT to dance with Alex tonight since Neil couldn’t due to injury!!! Safe to say Gorka deserves a lot of appreciation!" commented one fan about last week's show.
 
"Such a shame you couldn’t help out Alex tonight!" said another.
"Should have be Gorks not #kingkev," said a third.
And another commented: "Couldn’t we have @gorkamarquez1 as a stand in."
"Why have extra pros and not use them. Ermmmm hello @gorkamarquez1 deserved it not Kevin who has already had a partner this year #StrictlyComeDancing," wrote another annoyed viewer.
