
# Delhi air quality: All you need to know about govt's odd-even 3.0

Published at: **2019-11-02T07:28:00+00:00**

Author: **BS Web Team**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/current-affairs/delhi-air-quality-all-you-need-to-know-about-govt-s-odd-even-3-0-119110200327_1.html)

Delhi will restrict certain vehicles for 12 days from Monday, enforcing an odd-even scheme based on number plates to reduce hazardous air pollution.
The Delhi government announced the odd-even scheme after a Supreme Court-mandated panel declared public health emergency in the city and directed all construction activities to be stopped till November 5.
First introduced in 2016, odd-even is a vehicle rationing method that aims at putting a curb on the number of cars on the roads. It allows cars with odd-numbered registration plates to run on odd dates, and those with even-numbered plates on even dates.The scheme would also be applicable to vehicles that are not registered in Delhi.
Reacting to the announcement, cab aggregators Ola and Uber said they would deactivate surge pricing for the entire 12 day-period. "The Odd-Even scheme is a much needed step to reduce pollution. We whole heartedly support Delhi government's move and wish it success," a spokesperson from Uber said.
Here’s a short list of things to know about the scheme
Odd-even scheme dates: November 4 to November 15.
Odd-even scheme timings: 8 am to 8 pm, except on Sundays.
Odd-even scheme penalties: People will be fined Rs 4,000 for not following the rule.
Odd-even scheme exemptions: The following are exempted:
• Two wheelers
• Women drivers alone or with child up to 12 years of age
• Private vehicles with school children in uniform (only during school timings)
• Vehicles with person/s with physical disabilities
• President
• Vice President
• Prime Minister
• Governors
• Chief Justice of India
• Speaker of Lok Sabha
• Vehicles of Union Ministers
• Lok Sabha and Lok Sabha Leaders of Opposition
• Vehicles of chief ministers of states and union territories
• Vehicles of Supreme Court Judges
• UPSC Chairperson
• Chief Election Commissioner
• Election Commissioners
• Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG)
• Deputy Chairman Rajya Sabha
• Deputy Speaker of Lok Sabha
• Lieutenant Governor of Delhi
• Judges of Delhi High Court
• Lokayukta
• Emergency enforcement, defence, paramilitary and embassy vehicles
Delhi government ministers, including the chief minister, and MLAs are not exempt from following the rule. This time, even privately-owned CNG vehicles will not be exempt.
