
# Youthful Brumbies squad named for 2020 Super Rugby season

Published at: **2019-11-04T03:49:04+00:00**

Author: **Alex McLeod**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/youthful-brumbies-squad-named-for-2020-super-rugby-season)

The spectacle of the Rugby World Cup may have only just come to a conclusion, but the focus in the southern hemisphere will now shift to the upcoming Super Rugby campaign.
With kick-off for the 2020 season just under three months’ away, the off-season for all 15 franchises will soon turn into pre-season, meaning the finalisation of each team’s squad lists is imminent.
The Brumbies became the first side in the competition to do just that leading into the next chapter of Super Rugby, as head coach Dan McKellar named his 37-man squad for next year on Monday.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
McKellar’s side is absent of 14 players who were signed with the Canberra-based club in 2019, with the biggest omissions being the team’s five exiting Wallabies – David Pocock (Panasonic Wild Knights), Christian Lealiifano (NTT Communications Shining Arcs), Rory Arnold (Toulouse), Henry Speight (Reds) and Sam Carter (Ulster).
Taking their places are a host of youngsters, headlined by Queensland schoolboy star Reesjan Pasitoa, who will battle with Bayley Kuenzle and Noah Lolesio for the No. 10 jersey.
Both Kuenzle and Lolesio were members of the Brumbies squad this year, although neither took to the field, while Pasitoa – who was part of the Australian U18 side which defeated New Zealand Schools last month – is one of 10 recruits for the upcoming season.
“I think we’ve lost some experienced players but we’re really comfortable in the boys that we’ve brought in because they’ve been in our program for a couple of years now,” McKellar said upon his squad announcement.
