
# DWP's £225,000 Universal Credit spin campaign ruled misleading by watchdog

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/dwps-225000-universal-credit-spin-20816528)

Jeremy Corbyn today slams the Tories for "covering up" their benefits cruelty after a £225,000 spin campaign for Universal Credit was ruled misleading by the advertising watchdog.
Charities demanded an investigation after a string of taxpayer-funded "myth-busting" promotions breached the advertising code 42 times.
In a scathing ruling, the Advertising Standards Authority said a boast that UC “works” because claimants move into work faster was unsubstantiated, exaggerating and misleading.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told the Mirror: “The Conservatives have been caught red-handed trying to cover up the cruelty of Universal Credit.
“Universal Credit has pushed families into poverty, debt and forced many to rely on food banks.
"We don’t need spin, we need it scrapped.”
 
 
It is a humiliation for Tories at Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), whose adverts ironically claimed a lot was written about UC - "not all of it correct".
Chiefs had boasted the nine-week feature in the Metro newspaper would show "our more confident, front-footed strategy to tackle misconceptions" about the benefit.
But the ASA banned five adverts from being used again in their previous form after upholding three complaints and part of a fourth.
Raji Hunjan, chief executive of the welfare charity Z2K which complained to the ASA, demanded an independent probe into the DWP's working practices.
"If it has misled the public on Universal Credit – its flagship policy - what else is it misleading us on?" she said.
"This is a huge win for the tens of thousands of ordinary people who are suffering as a result of a broken benefits system.
 
 
“This damning judgement reveals an attitude which is not acceptable in public service, especially in the Department charged with protecting people from living in poverty."
Jonathan Blades of the MS Society said: “This ruling exposes the DWP’s indefensible attempt to provide inaccurate information to vulnerable people.
"The fact is that Universal Credit is leaving disabled people significantly worse off, and in some cases forcing them to turn to food banks.
"It’s equally disgraceful these adverts have cost the taxpayer more than £225,000, at a time when disabled people are typically losing £1,200 a year thanks to welfare system changes."
Emma Revie, chief executive at the Trussell Trust food bank charity, added: “This ruling is confirmation that the DWP cannot easily gloss over the realities of Universal Credit, particularly the five week wait for a first payment."
Shadow Work and Pensions Secretary Margaret Greenwood added: "They can’t hide the truth that if people are being forced in ever increasing numbers to turn to food banks to survive, the social security system is not protecting people from poverty as it should.
“The reality is that advances are loans that need to be paid back, often on top of other debts and rent arrears built up during the five week wait, leaving many people at risk of destitution.
“Labour will scrap Universal Credit, end the five week wait and abolish the benefit cap and the two-child limit. This is real change that will make a difference to people’s lives, not misleading PR.”
The series of adverts outlined “myths” about Universal Credit alongside information from DWP.
Some adverts included the phrase: “MYTH Universal Credit doesn’t work FACT It does. People move into work faster on Universal Credit than they did on the old system.”
But the ASA said this claim was based on three-year-old data that only included single unemployed claimants without children or housing costs.
That meant three adverts which contained the claim breached rules on misleading advertising, exaggeration, and substantiating and qualifying claims.
Similar breaches were found in three adverts that claimed "MYTH You have to wait 5 weeks to get any money on UC FACT If you need money, your Jobcentre will urgently pay you an advance".
The ASA said the adverts did not clearly present the conditions claimants had to meet to get the money - and they may not realise it had to be paid back.
Three adverts also boasted "MYTH UC makes it harder to pay your rent on time FACT Your Jobcentre can give you an advance payment and pay rent directly to landlords".
But they were ruled exaggerating and misleading after the ASA said direct payments are “not generally available to all UC claimants who wanted it”.
Finally, one advert was found in breach of rules that say adverts must clearly be badged as such.
The DWP is considering whether to ask for a review of the decision.
A DWP spokesman said: "We are disappointed with this decision and have responded to the ASA.
“We consulted at length with the ASA as we created the adverts, which have explained to hundreds of thousands of people how Universal Credit is helping more than 2.5 million people across the country.”
