
# Facebook unveils new logo in desperate attempt to rebrand - but users are unimpressed

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:44:32+00:00**

Author: **Shivali Best, https://www.facebook.com/shivalibestjournalist/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tech/facebook-unveils-new-logo-desperate-20813813)

In a desperate attempt to rebrand itself, Facebook has unveiled a new logo and changed its name to ‘FACEBOOK’.
While the site claims that the change is ‘a way to better communicate our ownership structure’, it’s been widely mocked by confused users.
Facebook ’s Chief Marketing Officer, Antonio Lucio, announced the change in a blog.
He wrote: “We’re updating our company branding to be clearer about the products that come from Facebook.
“We’re introducing a new company logo and further distinguishing the Facebook company from the Facebook app, which will keep its own branding.”
 
The new branding changes Facebook to FACEBOOK, and sees the distinctive blue design to a new multicolour alternative.
This new branding will appear not only on the Facebook app, but also across several other Facebook-owned services, including WhatsApp, Instagram , Messenger and Oculus.
Mr Lucio added: “This brand change is a way to better communicate our ownership structure to the people and businesses who use our services to connect, share, build community and grow their audiences.”
 
The change comes amid a storm of negative coverage for Facebook.
For example, co-founder Mark Zuckerberg recently spoke before the House Financial Services Committee, where he sparked serious concerns about Facebook’s cryptocurrency project, Libra.
And Facebook was also widely criticised for its political ad policy, which Zuckerberg stood by, despite rival Twitter ’s decision to ban political ads.
Many users have also been quick to mock the new branding, with some taking to Twitter to discuss the change.
One user wrote: “I’m not mad about the Facebook rebrand, just sad I wasn’t on the team that did as little as humanly possible and walked away with a criminal amount of money.”
Another joked: “Wow, they took this rebrand seriously! I just tried typing "facebook . com" into my browser, and got a 404. I had to type "FACEBOOK . COM" in all caps, and it worked.”
And one added: “Facebook’s move to FACEBOOK is clearly a rebrand for their boomer base that can’t figure out how to turn off caps lock.”
