
# China's Xinhua news agency condemns attack on its Hong Kong office

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:39:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asia/hong-kong-protest-china-xinhua-news-agency-condemns-attack-12059042)

HONG KONG: Hong Kong awoke to what is expected to be a day of relative calm on Sunday (Nov 3) following a violent night in which protesters set fire to metro stations and vandalised buildings, including an office of China's official news agency Xinhua.
Xinhua condemned the attack by what it said were "barbaric thugs" who broke doors and security systems and threw fire and paint bombs into the lobby.
"The practice of the black rioters once again shows that 'stopping the violence and restoring order' is Hong Kong's most important and urgent task at present," a spokesperson for Xinhua said in a Facebook post.
With no major demonstrations planned for Sunday, a clean-up operation was underway at the Xinhua offices, one of the buildings targeted by groups of black-clad protesters who fled the park to the business district, hurling petrol bombs and bricks along the way.
When Reuters visited early Sunday, some cleaning staff could be seen sweeping glass from the floor through broken doors and windows, as tourists curiously eyed the destruction.
More than 200 people were arrested in one of the worst outbreaks of violence in recent weeks as around five months of protests show no signs of abating. 
Demonstrators are angry at perceived Chinese meddling with Hong Kong's freedoms since the city returned from British to Chinese rule in 1997, a charge which China denies.
Cat-and-mouse clashes between riot police and demonstrators continued into the early hours of Sunday morning after police broke up an assembly of thousands on Saturday afternoon by firing tear gas into a park.
