
# Couple's Cyprus wedding saved as local businesses raise £7,000 for free package after Thomas Cook collapse

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:02+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/couples-cyprus-wedding-saved-local-17184198)

A couple whose dream wedding in Cyprus was cancelled after Thomas Cook collapsed have tied the knot - after local businesses rallied to give them a free £7,000 package.
Craig Williams and Kirsty Ward had saved up for two years for their luxury £10,000 ceremony, which was due to take place on October 23 in front of 25 guests.
But after the tour operator went bust and left their plans in tatters generous businesses offered their services for free.
The couple swapped their vows a week later than they had planned.
The pair who have been together for 15 years, had spent two years planning their special day at the luxury King Evelthon Beach Resort and Hotel on the sun-kissed island of Cyprus.
However, their dream wedding turned into a living nightmare just three weeks before they were due to fly when they heard the devastating news that Thomas Cook had ceased trading.
Despair turned to delight when the White Hart Hotel in Harrogate, North Yorks., offered them a free package worth over £3,000 including a three-course wedding breakfast and drinks, room hire, accommodation and a DJ.
Hotel owner Simon Cotton then rallied other firms and the couple were offered catering, hair and make-up, flowers and entertainment for their big day worth £7,000 - all free of charge.
Despite the ceremony taking place almost 3,000 miles away from the five star resort they had previously booked, the made-up newlyweds said their wedding was even "bigger and better" than their original plans .
Customer service adviser Kirsty, 41, said: “I felt sick when I heard the news about Thomas Cook. It was such a sinking feeling. We were just gutted.
“Simon contacted us the next day and offered to put the wedding on for us and I was taken aback.
“It has been completely manic, it has all happened so fast.
“It was an amazing day. It was probably a lot better than what we had planned."
While the couple will eventually be refunded for their flight and hotel, they are still out of pocket having lost deposits paid for hair, make up, catering and entertainment.
Kirsty added: “I’ve been completely overwhelmed by the kindness and generosity shown by so many people and we can’t thank the people of Harrogate enough for wanting to do this for us.
“We just didn’t expect anything like this at all!"
 
The couple met through a mutual friend 15 years ago and hit it off straight away.
They live in Sheffield, South Yorks., with their three children - Ruby, 12, Grace, eight, and Alexander, three.
Craig, a car valeter, popped the question in Whitby in May 2017 and they immediately set about planning their dream day in the sun.
They picked out the King Evelthon Beach Hotel and Resort in Cyprus and had booked hair and makeup packages and a bouncy castle for the children to play on after the service.
Kirsty said: “We wanted to get married abroad. As soon as I saw the King Evelthon hotel in the brochure I fell in love with it.
“We did a full two years' planning and had paid deposits to businesses for things like hair and make up.
“The package for the wedding was £5,500 but we paid at least £10,000 for everything."
The pair tied the knot at the Grade II listed hotel in the picturesque spa town on Wednesday, October 30, in front of 25 close friends and family.
Craig and Kirsty were welcomed by the Mayor and Mayoress of Harrogate, councillor Stuart Martin and his wife April, who presented the couple with a magnum of Champagne to help kick off their party in style.
Blushing bride Kirsty also had her hair and makeup done for free and arrived at the venue in a 1930's style vintage Beauford Tourer.
Kirsty added: “One minute we’re counting the cost of losing our wedding day and the next thing, we’re in the middle of organising something bigger and better than it was originally going to be.
“It’s just amazing and Craig and I can’t believe how lucky we are.
“We will be forever grateful to all the people who’ve been so thoughtful and kind-hearted.”
Craig, 36, said: “I guess sometimes things happen for a reason but we had no idea upon hearing the bad news that we’d end up a few weeks later with more than we had originally planned .”
Simon Cotton, managing director for HRH Group, which owns the White Hart, said: "I’m also in the middle of planning my own wedding for next year and I really felt for this couple who’d spent all this time planning and saving up to then have it all taken away at the last minute and I couldn’t help but think we must try to do something .
“What started as an offer to provide the wedding venue and wedding breakfast and drinks turned into a wedding far bigger and with so much more than the couple had originally planned or could afford.”
