
# BMW G 310 R and G 310 GS receive over 600 bookings in the month of October

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:37:54+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/bmw-g-310-r-and-g-310-gs-receive-over-600-bookings-in-the-month-of-october/)

BMW Motorrad has received over 600 bookings for their G 310 range of motorcycles during the festive season of October. The G 310 range includes the BMW G 310 R which is a street naked motorcycle that rivals the KTM 390 Duke, the other motorcycle is the BMW G 310 GS that is an adventure tourer mainly rivalling the Royal Enfield Himalayan and the Kawasaki Versys-X 300.
Both the motorcycles are locally produced in cooperation with TVS Motor Company in Hosur, India. The BMW G 310 R retails at Rs 2.99 lakh, ex-showroom India, while the BMW G 310 GS has a price tag of Rs 3.49 lakh, ex-showroom India.
Rudratej Singh, President and Chief Executive Officer, BMW Group India, said, "BMW Motorrad has an extremely aspirational and distinguished set of products that have gained immense popularity and trust amongst the motorcycling community in India. Together with highly competitive cost of ownership and steadily expanding outreach throughout the country, BMW Motorrad has created a very strong position for itself in the premium motorcycle segment. All these factors have contributed to the remarkable success of BMW G 310 motorcycles during the festive season exceeding all expectations. For our customers, the irresistible festive offer was the best Diwali gift as they realised their dream to own the ultimate riding machine. With BMW Motorrad community growing strongly in the country, we will continue to set new benchmarks in our performance."
Both the motorcycles are powered by a 313cc single-cylinder, liquid-cooled engine that puts out 34.5PS at 9,500rpm and 28Nm of torque at 7,500rpm. The engine comes mated to a 6-speed gearbox with slipper clutch. So far there has been no update from the manufacturer as to whether the motorcycle will comply with the stringent BSVI norms. Most likely, the updated emission tune could hike the price by Rs 10,000-12,000 for both motorcycles.

        EICMA 2019: BMW F 900 R and F 900 XR unveiled
      

        EICMA 2019: BMW drops teaser of a new motorcycle, F 850 RS?
      
