
# Xiaomi CC9 Pro to be powered by the Snapdragon 730G, Xiaomi confirms - Gizchina.com

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:57:10+00:00**

Author: **Ige Ebima**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/02/xiaomi-cc9-pro-to-be-powered-by-snapdragon-730g/)

Xiaomi CC9 Pro to be powered by the Snapdragon 730G, Xiaomi confirms4 (80%) 10 votes
There have been suspicions that the upcoming Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro will feature the Snapdragon 730G. The Geekbench listing of both the CC9 Pro and the Mi Note 10  has that on records. Mercifully, the company is now touting the performance of the upcoming device in today’s early morning launch teaser.
As per the official Weibo teaser, Xiaomi says the Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro uses the Qualcomm Snapdragon 730G processor, which is made of the same architecture and 8nm process as the Snapdragon 855. Compared with the previous generation, the performance of the Snapdragon 730G is significantly improved: the CPU is increased by 35%, the GPU is increased by 25%, and the AI ​​performance is improved by up to 100%.
Other than that, the teaser once again confirms the device will get a Penta-rear camera setup, while a single selfie shooter sits within a water-drop notch upfront. Speaking of the rear cameras, the Xiaomi CC9 Pro is well on the way to be the first smartphone fitted with a primary 108MP Samsung sensor. The sensor is aided by a 12MP portrait sensor with 10X optical zoom, 50X digital zoom, 20MP ultra-wide image sensor, Super macro mode, and more features.
It will come in a green and white with gradient and premium glass design, while it is fitted with a 6.47-inch AMOLED. It is said to come with a Gorilla Glass 5 protection on both front and back, while there is a fingerprint scanner below the display for authentication. Fueling the device is a 5260mAh battery which charges over a USB Type-C complete with 30W fast charging.
Xiaomi will officially present the CC9 Pro at a launch event coming up in China on November 5th. We are still days away from the launch, so a couple of more teasers will apparently still emanate from official Xiaomi.
Following the November 5th unveiling, the Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro will be released outside of China, but with a different name. Recall, that Xiaomi is at the same time actively teasing the arrival of the Mi Note 10, surprisingly with the same specs, and features. The Mi Note 10 is said to be the global variant of the cc9 Pro. It is due to be announced on November 14th.
