
# Lalcheta bowls Al Turki to win over Muscat

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:18:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Times of Oman](https://timesofoman.com/article/2172990/Sports/Cricket/Lalcheta-bowls-Al-Turki-to-win-over-Muscat)

MUSCAT: Star all-rounder Ajay Lalcheta ran through Muscat CT with a superb spell of spin bowling, taking 5 for 29 as Al Turki NMC secured an exciting 39-run victory in a Premier Division game at Oman Cricket’s grassy ground 2 in Amerat on Saturday.Muscat invited Al Turki to bat first, doing well to restrict it to 210 for 9 in 50 overs.Jayam Sunil Singh and Jay Odedra were Al Turki’s main batters with scores of 44 not out and 38 respectively. Leg-spinner Samay Shrivastava was once again the pick of Muscat bowlers, taking 4 for 31 with his difficult to read deliveries.Hoping to surpass a modest total, Muscat CT took the slow and steady route, losing its first wicket in the 10 th over for 36. At 88 for 2 it did look like it was well set for a successful chase before Lalcheta ripped it apart with his left-arm spin.
Having lost its 4 wickets for 95, Muscat brought back on track with a 50-run partnership by Sandeep Goud (31) and Ayaan Khan (35) before Lalcheta removed Sandeep and Samay in no time, reducing Muscat to 163 for 6 in 44 overs. Al Turki tightened the noose around Muscat, dismissing it for only 177 in the 48 th over. All-rounder Sufiyan Mahmood bowled well too, taking 2 for 39. Rajeshkumar Ranpura (36), Ayaan Khan (35), Sandeep Goud (31) and Jatinder Singh (24) were the notable scorers for Muscat.Brief scores (Premier Division): Al Turki NMC 210 for 9 in 50 overs (Jayam Sunil Singh 44 not out – 1x6, Jay Odedra 38 – 2x4, 2x6, Sankata Prasad 32 – 2x4, Sufiyan Mahmood 31 – 1x4, 2x6. Samay Shrivastava 4-31, Rajeshkumar Ranpura 3-20)defeated Muscat CT 171 all out in 47.1 overs (Rajeshkumar Ranpura 36 – 3x4, 1x6, Ayaan Khan 35 – 1x6, Sandeep Goud 31 – 1x4, 1x6, Jatinder Singh 24 – 4x4. Ajay Lalcheta 5-29, Sufiyan Mahmood 2-39) by 39 runs.Zubair wins again to stay unbeatenPacer Fazal Khan’s 3 for 18 was instrumental in fetching Zubair CT a comfortable win over Orient Travels GBL in a C Division match at Muscat Municipality ground 1.Orient Travels was bundled out for 97 in 17.3 overs as Zubair bowlers, led by Khan, were too hot to handle. Partibhan Mohan, Ruwan Rupa Sighe and Iqbal Mudasar took two wickets each. Syed Mohammed scored 33 for Orient.Zubair lost some quick wickets in order to improve its net run rate but finally managed to achieve the target in the 13 th over, scoring 98 for 7. Sunil Kumar topscored with a fluent 23 in a low-scoring game. Syed Mohammed bagged two wickets.Brief Scores (C Division): Orient Travels/GBL 97 all out in 17.3 overs (Syed Mohammed 33-5x4, 1x6, Fazal Khan 3-18, Parthiban Mohan 2-18, Ruwan Rupa Sighe 2-8, Iqbal Mudasar 2-11) lost to Zubair 98 for 7 in 12.4 overs (Sunil Kumar Sadasivan 23 – 3x4, Syed Mohammed 2-28) by 3 wickets.Faizan steers NBO Muzn to victoryAll-rounder Faizan Tufail powered NBO Muzn to another win, this time against Aptus Waves in a D Division clash at Muscat Municipality ground 2. NBO posted 171 for 9 on the board in 20 overs thanks to brilliant batting by Mohammed Zeeshan (57), Faizan Tufail (40) and Farooq Kamran (38). Aptun failed to mount any challenge and folded up for only 109 in the 19 th over despite a defiant 54 by Simon Mohammed. Faizan led the bowling honours, taking 3 for 15 while Farooq Kamran and Shameer Mohammed claimed two wickets each.Brief Scores (D Division): NBO Muzn 171 for 9 in 20 overs (Muhammed Zeeshan 57 – 8x4, Faizan Tufail 40 – 3x4, 1x6, Farooq Kamran 38 – 6x4, Mohamed Muslim 2-28, Harish Mohan 2-22) thrashed Aptus Waves 109 all out in 18.3 overs (Simon Mohammed 54 – 6x4, 1x6, Biji Sundar 32 – 3x4, Faizan Tufail 3-15, Farooq Kamran 2-8, Shameer Mohamed 2-15) by 62 runsBrief Scores (E Division): Design Group of Engineering Consultants 167 for 9 in 20 overs (Mathankumar Padmanathan 54 – 6x4, Waseem Raza 49 – 11x4. Joy Rohan Corda 4-17, Chaitra 2-19, Praveen Lewis 2-25) beat Muscat Masters 124 for 9 in 20 overs (Ashwinkumar Dave 24 – 3x4, 1x6, Suraj Sukumar 4-30, Amir Mohammad 2-19) by 43 runs
