
# Seahawks-Buccaneers predictions: Seattle Times writers make their picks

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:45:36+00:00**

Author: **Seattle Times sports staff**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/sports/seahawks/seahawks-buccaneers-predictions-seattle-times-writers-make-their-picks/)

Seahawks 31, Buccaneers 26. Trap game? The Seahawks can’t afford to look ahead to next week’s showdown in San Francisco, particularly with their inconsistent performances at home so far this season. Tampa Bay is 2-5; it has lost three straight, and it has one of the NFL’s worst pass defenses of the past five years. The Seahawks should be able to run away with this one in the fourth quarter. Can they?
Seahawks 30, Buccaneers 27. I’m done picking Seahawks’ blowouts. It’s just not in their DNA, even though this is a team they should beat handily. They need to pull it together at home to set up a monumental showdown against the 49ers. Matt, if you want to change your pick to a Seattle loss again after looking at this – and I know you are – be my guest.
Seahawks 24, Buccaneers 14. There are still a lot of questions surrounding the Seahawks, who have struggled against good and bad teams alike. But at home vs. a Tampa Bay team that has lost three in a row seems as close to a lock as you can get. This, of course, means that I have jinxed them and they will fall by three touchdowns, but I’m sticking with the prediction.

        
          Week 1
        
      
Condotta: 27-10 Seahawks
Jude: 27-16 Seahawks
Stone: 24-10 Seahawks
*Calkins: 21-14 Seahawks

        
          Week 2
        
      
Condotta: 24-20 Steelers
*Jude: 27-24 Seahawks
Stone: 20-17 Steelers
Calkins: 24-21 Seahawks

        
          Week 3
        
      
Condotta: 23-19 Seahawks
Jude: 17-16 Seahawks
Stone: 30-7 Seahawks
*Calkins: 21-20 Saints

        
          Week 4
        
      
*Condotta: 31-13 Seahawks
Jude: 24-16 Seahawks
Stone: 20-13 Seahawks
Calkins: 24-23 Cardinals

        
          Week 5
        
      
Condotta: 31-27 Seahawks
Jude: 38-35 Seahawks
*Stone: 30-27 Seahawks
Calkins: 27-24 Rams

        
          Week 6
        
      
Condotta: 30-23 Seahawks
Jude: 28-27 Seahawks
*Stone: 30-27 Seahawks
Calkins: 27-26 Browns

        
          Week 7
        
      
Jude: 34-32 Ravens
Stone: 24-21 Seahawks
*Calkins: 26-24 Ravens

        
          Week 8
        
      
*Jude: 31-21 Seahawks
Stone: 24-10 Seahawks
Calkins: 23-22 Falcons

        * = closest score
      
Seattle Times sports staff
