
# Best Microsoft Surface Deals November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Somrata Sarkar**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/tablets/microsoft-surface-deals-3684757/)

Over the years, Microsoft has proven that it's Surface devices are not only here to stay but they are some of the best Windows devices around competing with the likes of Dell, Lenovo and HP. There's a wide range of options so you'll find a Surface that's right for your needs and we've found all the best deals and discounts available.
The Surface range boasts a sleek and powerful line of touchscreen laptops, 2-in-1 tablets, and all-in-one PCs too. They pack stunning displays, speed and versatility into slick, lightweight designs, breaking the old notion of PCs as clunky business computers. On the contrary, these premium PCs are closer to Apple MacBooks and iPads and sometimes outperform them.
That said, Surface devices can be expensive, reaching well into the thousands depending on the model and configuration you choose. That’s why we’ve rounded up the best Surface offers out there, along with buying advice, so you can spot the deals from the duds. This is the current range:
Here's how much the Surface Pro 6 costs today from all of the major retailers.
Keep in mind Surface Pro tablets don’t come with the Type Cover or other accessories, so you will have to buy them separately. This mounts on to the price which is why we recommend looking for bundle deals, whichever retailer you shop from. Alternatively, if you do not find a bundle, it's a good idea to check if the discount offered is significant enough to offset the price of buying accessories separately.
Type Covers, the detachable keyboards for Surface tablets, will probably be the most useful accessory to buy. There are two version, so ensure the one you buy is compatible with the Surface model you have. The Surface Go Type Cover usually retails for £99.99/$129.99 while the Surface Pro Type Cover retails at £149.99/$159.99.
We've also listed the RRPs for other Surface accessories below so it's easier to spot how much you're really saving. Some retailers can inflate the original price to make a discount look greater than it really is.
With the release of the Surface Pro 6, you can expect to see deals and discounts on older Surface Pro models. The first place to check for deals is at the Microsoft store itself. For instance, you can now get a Surface Pro (5th gen) for £649.
Also check out the Surface deals page where, at the time of writing, you can save over £500. When Microsoft offers deals, other retailers may also follow suit, so knowing Microsoft’s discount is a useful indicator of how much you’re actually saving. Remember to compare the specs of the model you’re buying against the price set by Microsoft for the same configuration.
Retailers sometimes unfairly use images of the Surface tablets with the Type Cover as well, even though the Type Cover is not included. Ensure you double check the details before adding to cart. 
Of course, comparing prices against different retailers and e-retailers such as the ones below is always a good idea:
If you shop on Amazon, signing up for a Prime membership can also get you free next day delivery and access to limited-time Lightning Deals 30 minutes before non-members. You can sign up for a 30-day free trial, which you can cancel any time.
With so many models about, the year of the model on offer also affects the price. The latest version may not have the most competitive discount, while an older model with a competitive discount may not have the most advanced specs.
If you’re happy with an older model of a Surface device that’s been pre-owned, you could save shopping refurbished. We would recommend that the model you buy is certified refurbished, as these are rigorously tested and backed by Microsoft to work like new. You also get a one-year hardware warranty.
Refurbished deals can be found directly on Microsoft’s site. Keep checking if there's nothing in stock.
Microsoft also offers up to 10% discounts to students, parents and teachers and includes a range of devices.
Tech Advisor’s dedicated student deals site is another place to get a discount on Microsoft Surface products. Currently, there is also a 10% off code from Currys which you can redeem online or in store. You will need to create a Student Beans account to access these discounts.
See all Tech Advisor student tech deals here.

        From: MicrosoftWas: £1,003.99Now: £779  (£224.99 off) View Deal
      
Microsoft has up to almost £225 off the Surface Pro 6 bundled with a Type Cover.

        From: MicrosoftNow: From £779  (Up to £506 off) View Deal
      
It's one of the best laptops around, now with up to £506 off directly from Microsoft with the launch of the Surface Laptop 3. Read more in our review.

        From: AmazonWas: £2,999Now: £2,464.07  (£534.93 off) View Deal
      
Get over £500 off Surface Book 2 at Amazon. This model comes with a Core i7, 16GB of RAM, a 1TB SSD and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 graphics card. Read our Surface Book 2 review.

        From: AmazonWas: £509.99Now: £459  (£50.99 off) View Deal
      
Get the Microsoft Surface Go from Amazon, a better deal than buying directly from Microsoft.

        From: AmazonWas: £139.99Now: £79.99  (43% off) View Deal
      
If you need a keyboard cover for your Surface Pro then this almost half price. It's compatible with the Surface Pro, Surface Pro 4 and Surface Pro 3.

        From: MicrosoftWas: £879Now: £699  (£180 off) View Deal
      
Get the Microsoft Surface Pro 6 with 8GB RAM, 128GB storage and a Core i5 processor (tablet only) for a reasonable price. There are also various discounts available on the other models - up to £450 off!

        From: AmazonWas: £99.99Now: £68.49  (33% off) View Deal
      
Get almost a third off the Surface Pen so you can write, draw or just more accurately do things on your Surface.
Click here for the best Microsoft voucher codes.
