
# Channel 4's controversial documentary Smuggled to air a week after it was pulled

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:58:13+00:00**

Author: **Vicki Newman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/vicki-newman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/channel-4s-controversial-documentary-smuggled-20808237)

A controversial Channel 4 documentary that was pulled from the schedule in the wake of the tragic deaths of 39 migrants is set to air one week on.
Smuggled will preview on the channel tonight at 9pm.
The series follows a group of eight British citizens - without their passports - as they try to evade border security and make it into the UK undetected.
It was originally scheduled to air last Monday, but was pulled following the terrible discovery of 39 bodies in the back of a lorry in Essex.
A Channel 4 spokeswoman said at the time: "In light of the tragic events today we have postponed the transmission of the series."
 
The broadcaster says the show, more than ever, highlights the human impact of border security and how our borders are managed.
Retired couple David and Carolynne plan to hide in their motorhome on a ferry crossing.
Asher will attempt to cross the Channel in the kind of boat used by people smugglers.
Lorry driver Tony will test the authorities in Calais by trying to smuggle youth-worker Alim through undetected.
And journalist Khurram will attempt to enter the UK with someone else’s passport.
From boats to lorries, ferries to car boots - all of the contributors attempt routes that have been used by those seeking to enter the country clandestinely or by people traffickers and drug dealers.
New Home Secretary Priti Patel says she’s determined to keep Britain's borders secure – deal or no deal.
 
This series aims to test the scale of the task facing her, whilst raising broader questions about what we can reasonably expect of our Border Force without turning the country into a fortress.
The broadcaster had commissioned the show at a time when the UK was preparing to "take back control" with Brexit .
Post-mortem examinations are being carried out on the 39 Essex lorry victims, who are believed to be from Vietnam.
Police have not yet publicly identified any of the victims, but families have started receiving phone calls to give them the devastating news.
Essex Police Assistant Chief Constable Tim Smith said previously: "We are in direct contact with a number of families in Vietnam and the UK, and we believe we have identified families for some of the victims whose journey ended in tragedy on our shores."
He added: "This evidence is being gathered across a number of jurisdictions worldwide. As a result, we cannot at this time announce the identity of any of the victims."
* Smuggled airs tonight at 9pm on Channel 4
