
# Best Echo Deals for November 2019: Where to Buy a Cheap Amazon Echo

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Black**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/gadget/echo-deals-3680483/)

Amaon is currently running discounts on Echo Dot 3 (now down to £34.99) and Echo Dot with Clock (down to £44.99). It's not the cheapest we've seen the Echo Dot, and we expect it to go lower still later this month for Black Friday, but each represents excellent value if you're looking to buy today.
In September Amazon announced a whole new range of Echo products, most of which are available to pre-order but the Echo 3 and Echo Dot with Clock are on sale now. The rest will arrive over the next few weeks - just in time for some cracking Black Friday discounts.
So stay tuned for the £189.99 Echo Studio (7 Nov), £119.99 Echo Show 8 (21 Nov), and £24.99 Echo Flex (14 Nov). Meanwhile Echo Glow goes on sale in the US on 20 November at $29.99, Echo Buds are coming soon, and the Echo Frames and Loop are invite-only purchases.
Other models in Amazon's existing Echo line of smart speakers are not currently discounted, and we aren't expecting to see any major sale events now until Black Friday, which is on 29 November. However, it's still possible to save money on Echo.
In this article we've embedded real-time pricing for Echo devices at all the major retailers, and these prices are updated daily so you can be sure they are correct. You can also check out our carousel for Echo bundle deals, and read on below for where to get refurbished Echos. Plus, we routinely scour the web for the best prices on Echo, and will keep you informed of any hidden gems we find.
Right now Echo purchases also get you 90 days of Amazon Music Unlimited for free, which is two months longer than the existing 30-day trial. Read more about Music Unlimited and how it compares with Prime Music. 
The Echo Dot is Amazon's cheapest smart speaker (at least until the Flex goes on sale). With Alexa built-in it is capable of all the same things as the pricier Echos, but you don't get a display and audio quality is naturally inferior, but still surprisingly good. With a retail price of £49.99, buying an Echo Dot is the best way to try Alexa in your home without investing too much, and it's also the cheapest way to get an Echo in every room of the house when you ultimately decide you love it. Read our full Echo Dot review.

        Note: Our up-to-the-minute price-comparison tech isn’t supported on Google AMP pages and can be erroneously blocked by some ad blockers. If you don’t see a price comparison table above, please turn off your ad blocker and refresh the page (on desktop), or click here on mobile.
      
An updated version of Echo Dot comes with a built-in display that can show the time, alarms and timers, as well as the outside temperature - handy additions that enable Echo Dot to work as a bedside alarm clock, though they come at a £10 premium over the standard model. The Echo Dot with Clock retails at £59.99. Read our full review of the Echo Dot with Clock.
The standard Echo has just been updated with the third-gen model, which retails at £89.99 just like its predecessor. (It is still possible to find the Echo 2 at Argos, but unless the price comes down we'd advise buying the newer model.) A step up from Echo Dot, the new Echo offers a refined design and improved audio quality. Plus, Alexa is a constant across all Echo devices: she doesn't change. Note that this Echo does not have a built-in smart home hub or temperature sensor, so look further up the range for that. Read our full Echo review.
Echo Plus (currently in its second-generation) is the device you want if you love the Echo Dot and standard Echo but want to step up audio quality a notch, with a larger 3in woofer and 0.8in tweeter over the standard model's 2.5in woofer and 0.6in tweeter. It also has built-in Zigbee that allows it to act as a hub for all your smart home kit. Naturally it costs a little more, with a retail price of £139.99. Read our full Echo Plus review.
 
Sort of a cross between Echo Dot and Echo Show, Echo Spot is a smart alarm clock with Alexa built-in and the smallest (but not cheapest) of Amazon's Echo devices with a screen built-in. It retails at £119.99, which is £40 more than the Echo Show 5 (below), another compact Echo smart display. Read our full Echo Spot review.
The most recent addition to Amazon's Echo line is the Echo Show 5, a smart display that is beaten on price only by the Echo Dot with a retail price of £79.99. Amazon builds in a 5.5in display, which is ideal if you want a screen but also a more compact device than the standard 10in Show. Read our full Echo Show 5 review.
 
The second-generation Echo Show is an Alexa smart display with a 10in screen. Retailing at £219.99 it's quite a bit more expensive than anything else in the line, but it also has a usefully large HD screen and packs decent audio with excellent volume and plenty of bass. Read our full Echo Show review.
 
The Echo Input is not strictly an Echo speaker, though it offers a cheap way to turn an existing speaker into an Alexa device, so useful if you don't want to replace your existing kit but you wish it was a bit smarter. It retails at £34.99. Read our full Echo Input review.
 
The next sale will be Black Friday in November, but Amazon offers some great deals all year round - especially if you're interested in buying multiple Echos or combining them with other gadgets such as an Amazon Smart Plug, Philips Hue smart bulb or a Ring doorbell. 

        Amazon Echo Dot (3rd gen) Certified RefurbishedFrom: AmazonWas: £44.99Now: £24.99  (£20 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Dot (3rd-gen)From: AmazonWas: £49.99Now: £34.99  (£15 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Dot With ClockFrom: AmazonWas: £59.99Now: £44.99  (£15 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo InputFrom: AmazonWas: £34.99Now: £24.99  (£10 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Dot (3rd-gen) with Amazon Smart PlugFrom: AmazonWas: £74.98Now: £49.99  (£25 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Show (2nd-gen) + Echo Show 5 + Philips Hue BulbFrom: AmazonWas: £314.97Now: £249.98  (£64.99 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Plus (2nd-gen) with Philips Hue BulbFrom: AmazonWas: £154.98Now: £139.99  (£14.99 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Show + Ring Video DoorbellFrom: AmazonWas: £398.99Now: £318.99  (£80 off) View Deal
      

        Amazon Echo Show + Ring Video Doorbell ProFrom: AmazonWas: £448.99Now: £348.99  (£100 off) View Deal
      
Amazon Echo Show 5 + Amazon Smart PlugFrom: AmazonWas: £104.98Now: £94.98  (£10 off) View Deal< >
A great way to save on Echo devices directly from Amazon is through buying refurbished. Refurbished prices can save you up to 54% off the RRP on other Amazon devices too, like Kindle e-readers and Fire tablets.
Certified refurbished devices go through rigorous testing (hence "certified") to ensure products are just like new. You also get a separate 1-year limited warranty. Click here to see all Amazon Certified Refurbished deals.
In the US, there are a lot more options for certified refurbished Amazon devices.
Echo speakers always see big discounts for Black Friday and Cyber Monday, Christmas, Boxing Day and January sales, Easter sales and Amazon Prime Day. They may also go on sale at other points throughout the year, and we'll alert you to any promotions within this article.
When an Echo device goes on sale at Amazon it is also found at this reduced price at official stockists including Currys, John Lewis and Argos, so be sure to also check these outlets as stocks run low.
You can also find Echo deals from third-party sellers in the US. Newegg, sometimes has bundle deals on Echo devices. See all Echo deals on Newegg here.
