
# What Appears To Be The Last Guy Running ‘Anthem’ Just Left BioWare

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/01/what-appears-to-be-the-last-guy-running-anthem-just-left-bioware/)

I missed this news the day it happened, but I just heard that BioWare has lost its Head of Live Service, as Chad Robertson has just left the studio after 14 years. It’s yet another pretty sizable departure for BioWare, the last one being Ben Irving, who was running Anthem at the time once Mark Darrah and Mike Gamble moved on to Dragon Age.When that happened, I asked who would be heading up Anthem post-launch now with Irving gone. As Head of Live Service, the answer appeared to be Chad Robertson, as he was the one who eventually published a blog post, in that instance quite literally being the face of Anthem, explaining what was next for the game. That post included some not-ideal news about the rest of the roadmap, the future “Acts” being scrapped in favor of seasonal content. That content turned out to be a reskin of the Catacylsm for a “Season of Skulls” Halloween event.
Now? I have no idea who is running what remains of Anthem, if anyone. Robertson was clearly in charge in some capacity after Irving left, but I have no idea what’s happening now. Jesse Anderson, community lead, recently got a new role but he confirmed that he’s still working on Anthem too. I asked him who was running the Anthem show right now in the wake of Robertson’s departure, but I haven’t heard back yet.
In his departing words, Robertson says that “SW:TOR, Anthem, the Austin studio, and BioWare are in good hands; you can expect great things ahead,” though again, it’s unclear who the torch is being passed to.
I am often told to stop writing about Anthem because it’s beating a dead horse, and yet I think these departures go beyond just Anthem, and I think many fans are a little concerned about the overall status of BioWare these days after two high profile misses, Andromeda and Anthem, and the next game on the horizon being a new Dragon Age while all these different people are leaving. I don’t have any inside knowledge as to what’s going on, but I am kind of getting Blizzard vibes to a certain extent here, a studio that has produced some of the most beloved classics in the industry sort of starting to meander aimlessly over time with a lot of high profile names leaving.
I no longer really care about hearing about future plans for Anthem because I simply cannot imagine they will be anything beyond the bare minimum of keeping the game alive on life support, if that. I am starting to be curious about the state of Dragon Age, and the potential future return of Mass Effect, even if that’s years away. I just want to see what they’re working on, since as I fan, I am also very much wanting to get out of this “down” era for BioWare between their last two releases. But nothing yet, nothing but more departures.
