
# Ignore Your Family this Thanksgiving with a Movie Theater Friends Marathon

Published at: **2019-11-01T02:23:53+00:00**

Author: **Bethy Squires**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/2019/10/fathom-events-screens-friends-marathon-thanksgiving-weekend.html)

Could it be more cinematic? Bolstered by the impressive turnout for their 25th anniversary screening, Fathom Events is planning to dominate your Thanksgiving weekend by offering screenings of all the Friends Thanksgiving episodes. According to Entertainment Weekly, seven of the nine Friendsgiving episodes (and one non-Thanksgiving ep) will be screened in theaters over two days: November 24 at 7 p.m. and November 25 at 4 and 7 p.m. Fathom disclaims that episodes and order are subject to change, but at time of publication the marathon included “The One with the List” instead of either “The One with the Rumor” or “The One with Chandler in a Box.” Rumor’s exclusion makes sense, given the wildly transphobic plotline, but what gives with the box?
Friends fandom is its own cottage industry now. Catchphrases from the show are now the majority of embroidery projects on Etsy and captions on Vanderpump Rules Instagram posts. Jennifer Aniston is in the Guinness record holder for the fastest time to reach 1 million followers on Instagram. The episodes have been remastered in 4k. So if you’ve ever wanted to see a frozen turkey in a fez in the highest definition possible, this is for you.
November 24, 7:00p.m. The One Where Underdog Gets AwayThe One With The ListThe One With The FootballThe One With All The Thanksgivings
November 25, 4:00p.m and 7:00p.m.The One Where Ross Got HighThe One Where Chandler Doesn’t Like DogsThe One With Rachel’s Other SisterThe One With The Late Thanksgiving
