
# Deals Spotlight: B&H Photo Discounts Every 10.2-Inch iPad Model to New Low Prices (Starting at $299 for 32GB)

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:37:45+00:00**

Author: **Mitchel Broussard**

Original: [MacRumors](https://www.macrumors.com/2019/11/04/deals-bh-photo-every-ipad/)

B&H Photo today introduced numerous discounts on the new 10.2-inch iPad that Apple updated in September 2019. Across the board these are the lowest prices we've tracked for the new iPad.
Note: MacRumors is an affiliate partner with these vendors. When you click a link and make a purchase, we may receive a small payment, which helps us keep the site running. Below you can find each iPad and its corresponding sale, all of which are seeing $30 discounts this week. B&H Photo has every color and storage capacity marked down, offering a wide range of discount opportunities for shoppers as we head into the holiday season.
Additionally, Amazon has a few of these iPads on sale as well. You can get the cellular 128GB iPad, priced at $529.00, down from $559.00 ($30 off). This is only for the Gold model, and Amazon isn't currently marking down other colors in this configuration. If you're shopping for Wi-Fi only, you can get the Silver 128GB iPad for $399.98 or the Space Gray 128GB iPad for $399.00, both down from an original price of $429.00 (about $30 off). Apple's new iPad includes a larger 10.2-inch display and support for the Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard. Our full Deals Roundup has more details on the latest discounts on Apple-related products and accessories.
