
# Pique On Messi & Griezmann's Relationship

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/gerard-pique-on-lionel-messi-antoine-griezmann-s-relationship/666482)

With many believing there is tension between FC Barcelona talisman Lionel Messi and new signing Antoine Griezmann, defender Gerard Pique has now commented on their relationship.

        
          Most Goal Contributions In 2019, Ronaldo Trails Messi
        
      
Upon the Frenchman's big-money arrival at the Camp Nou at the beginning of the season, many Spanish publications claimed Messi was not entirely happy he was brought into the squad.
Before the 28-year-old had signed for the Catalan giants, the Argentine caused a stir when he refused to answer questions about the former Atletico Madrid forward in an interview, perhaps due to the way Griezmann had snubbed the club a season earlier.
However, Pique, one of Barca's most experienced players, has now insisted there are no issues between the two superstars.

        
          Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma's Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
"Here, we magnify everything very much," he told Cadena SER.
"Leo and Grizi get along, the same as Leo and (Ousmane) Dembele get along, or Leo with Pedro or (David) Villa.
"It's good. With Luis (Suarez), they are almost like brothers.
"Just because he doesn't get along (with Griezmann) like he does with Luis doesn't mean they get along badly."

        
          Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
Messi and Griezmann have contributed to eight goals and seven assists in LaLiga for the Blaugrana so far this season.
