
# Microsoft Launches Public Previews of Visual Studio Online and Power Virtual Agents

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:45:00+00:00**

Author: **msmash**

Original: [developers.slashdot.org](https://developers.slashdot.org/story/19/11/04/167238/microsoft-launches-public-previews-of-visual-studio-online-and-power-virtual-agents?utm_source=rss1.0mainlinkanon&utm_medium=feed)

An anonymous reader writes: At Ignite 2019 today, Microsoft launched Visual Studio Online public preview. Visual Studio Online meshes Visual Studio, cloud-hosted developer environments, and a web-based editor. AI, big data, and cloud computing are shifting development beyond the "standard issue development laptop," and Visual Studio Online is clearly a reflection of this trend. "Visual Studio Online philosophically (and technically) extends Visual Studio Code Remote Development to provide managed development environments that can be created on-demand and accessed from anywhere," Microsoft explained today. "These environments can be used for long-term projects, to quickly prototype a new feature, or for short-term tasks, like reviewing pull requests." The company also announced the public preview of its Power Virtual Agents tool, a new no-code tool for building chatbots that's part of the company's Power Platform, which also includes Microsoft Flow automation tool, which is being renamed to Power Automate today, and Power BI. From a report: Built on top of Azure's existing AI smarts and tools for building bots, Power Virtual Agents promises to make building a chatbot almost as easy as writing a Word document. With this, anybody within an organization could build a bot that walks a new employee through the onboarding experience for example. "Power virtual agent is the newest addition to the Power Platform family," said Microsoft's Charles Lamanna. "Power Virtual Agent is very much focused on the same type of low code, accessible to anybody, no matter whether they're a business user or business analyst or professional developer, to go build a conversational agent that's AI-driven and can actually solve problems for your employees, for your customers, for your partners, in a very natural way." Further reading: Microsoft rebrands Flow as Power Automate, adds RPA features and virtual agents; and Visual Studio IntelliCode gets whole-line code completions, dynamic refactoring detection.
