
# Boost For Connacht As Province Announce Three Contract Extensions

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:20:32+00:00**

Author: **Marisa Kennedy**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/kennedymarisa760/connacht-three-contract-extensions/)


        Connacht have announced that key trio Tiernan O’Halloran, Sean O’Brien and Tom Farrell have all signed contract extensions that will see them remain with the province until the end of the 2021/22 season.
      
O’Halloran has been capped 175 times for Connacht since making his debut in 2010, amassing almost 200 points during that time. The full-back is a product of the Connacht system having played his club rugby with Connemara RFC before going on to join the side’s Academy. He has also been capped six times for Ireland, receiving his first full cap against South Africa in 2016.
Meanwhile, Sean O’Brien has followed a similar path having played his underage rugby with Galwegians RFC. The 24 year old Connacht native has made almost 60 appearances in the Connacht jersey since making his senior debut in 2015. O’Brien has previously represented Ireland at Under 18, 19 and 20 level.
Centre Tom Farrell joined Connacht in 2017 and has gone on to make 55 appearances for the province. His impressive form over the past two seasons saw him named in Ireland’s Six Nations Squad in March 2019.
Commenting on the three contract extensions, head coach Andy Friend said they are a sign of what the club are “trying to achieve”.
“We are delighted to announce that Tiernan, Sean and Tom have all committed to Connacht for a further two seasons. These three players are key to our ambitions and their signings are a statement of belief in what we are trying to achieve.
“We have made a positive start to the season so far but have some vital Pro14 and Champions Cup in the coming weeks. These signings are a great boost for the rest of the squad and everyone who supports Connacht Rugby”.
Connacht will be hoping to maintain that “positive start” to the season when they welcome Leinster to the Sportsground on Friday for the first inter-provincial derby of the PRO14 calendar.
Kick-off in Galway is 7.35pm.
