
# 'It wasn’t like we were living on the edge' - every word from Slaven Bilic after Stoke City victory

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:21:38+00:00**

Author: **Paul Suart, https://www.facebook.com/West-Brom-reporter-Paul-Suart-1706553162899720/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/west-brom-stoke-slaven-bilic-17201977)

Slaven Bilic saw pros and cons in his team’s performance as West Brom went top of the Championship with a straight-forward win at bottom-placed Stoke.
A goal apiece from top scorer Matt Phillips and Hal Robson-Kanu sealed a success that lifted Albion back to the summit after Swansea, Leeds and Preston had each taken their turn over the weekend.
Hapless Stoke, led by caretaker manager Rory Delap after head coach Nathan Jones was sacked on Friday, were hopeless in truth and barely laid a glove on the Baggies on a bitterly cold night at the bet 365 Stadium.
 
The margin of West Brom’s victory would have been greater had in-form Robson-Kanu , who now has three goals in four matches, not been denied by a post and goalkeeper Jack Butland late on.
Here’s what Baggies boss Bilic made of a display that sends Albion to Hull on Saturday in pole position.
The game ended quite routine, quite comfortable - with ole’s and everything. But to be fair it wasn’t like that until we scored the second goal.
It wasn’t like we were living on the edge. I don’t mean that. But you can’t be happy controlling the game when you are just one up. - not just in the Championship, but in every football game.
Goals can come and they change everything. It wasn’t that kind of game. It ended like that. But only after we scored the second goal.
We started brilliantly. Movement everything, pass, pass, pass. And then you score a goal. We were happy we were controlling, but there was still 80 minutes to go.
This is your round up of all things West Brom; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Baggies throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest WBA news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our West Brom reporter Joseph Chapman on Twitter, and his email address is Joseph.Chapman@reachplc.com
 
It’s difficult. It’s Stoke away. They are in crisis, of course they are. But they have some great players. Players who have played Champions League, players who have played semi-finals of Euros. They have quality.
And that is why I asked the guys to be more greedy. To not be happy with controlling the game at 1-0 up. We did it. Although we didn’t start the second-half great.
But in the end we did it with class and again the guys who came off the bench did really good. They raised the level of our game. And we were counting on the fact they had a few players who hadn’t played recently - who don’t have the minutes.
And by the end of the game it was a case of being a little bit fitter than them, by keeping the ball and passing the ball.
 
A bit criticising us, I’m not underestimating the win. It’s unbelievable and a difficult away game. It’s Monday night in Stoke, November.
They are in a position where they are wounded and we responded just the way I wanted with a clean sheet and three points - quite comfortable at the end - it’s brilliant.
They did. The fact is there’s no lie. They are there where they are bottom of the league because something didn’t work out. It only matters until the game starts.
We are there (at the top) also for a reason. If you give them a little bit suddenly they’re not playing like bottom of the league, they are playing like top of the league.
 
Make no mistake with this Stoke team. There’s 15 games played. But if we erase our memories and start again tomorrow with a new Championship, then they could be fifth in the league.
It’s momentum and you can’t give it. So you can’t give to them anything. We were mature after we scored the second one and I liked that. We didn’t want to give them a little bit. It’s not that they didn’t try, but you know how it is. You’re bottom of the league and you go in the dressing room, someone says ‘come on guys’ and then suddenly the team passes you by and score a goal and you’re back to square one. It’s very important.
I’m never going to be happy with him. Of course he was top, but he’s in that position. He’s top the way he passes the ball, the way he kills the opponent, the way he dictates the game.
He’s a brilliant player and that’s why we wanted him to come and play for us and did everything we could to bring him from Brentford. He’s different class and one of the biggest reasons why we’re playing so good, but he can do much better.
