
# Tears flow on Indian Idol show as contestant praised by Sachin Tendulkar leaves judges mesmerised with rendition of Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan’s song

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:40:17+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/tears-flow-on-indian-idol-show-as-contestant-praised-by-sachin-tendulkar-leaves-judges-mesmerised-with-rendition-of-nusrat-fateh-ali-khans-song/271240/)

Sony TV’s singing reality show Indian Idol saw its judges break down publicly as tears flowed during another sensational performance by Sunny from Punjab. Sunny’s story had moved even batting legend Sachin Tendulkar, who had taken to Twitter to publicly applaud the singer from Bhatinda in Punjab. Sunny earned his livelihood by polishing people’s shoes at the railway station. According to him, his mother begged for rice from her neighbours to ensure a meal for herself and her son.
Sunny had moved the nation with his rendition of legendary Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan’s Afreen Afreen. On Saturday, Sunny performed another Nusrat classic Ye jo halka halka suroor hai. Hans was invited to be in the show during Sunny’s performance. All three judges, Vishal, Neha Kakkar and Anu Malik, were left mesmerised by Sunny’s singing. Vishal and Neha, in particular, struggled to control their emotions as tears rolled down their cheeks.
While wiping his tears, Vishal said, “We live with music every day. We hear singers and musicians every day. No one is more fortunate than us in the world (that we are witnessing your performance). Nusrat saheb is a flow of music. He’s given birth to so many kinds of music. It’s a matter of huge pride for anyone to even sit under his shadow. I hear the same truth about music from you.”
Vishal then announced that he was going to dome something that he had never done in his life during any show or live programme. “I’ve never done for any singer or in any studio. Music is my karma. I earn my livelihood from this profession. I go around the world, do shows and get their love. Today I want to pass their love to you as shagun.”
Vishal then got up from his chair and walked up to Sunny, who was standing next to another singing legend Hans Raj Hans, also from Punjab. Vishal stunned everyone by bowing before the contestant as he handed over what appeared to be a Rs 2,000 note.
His act left everyone stunned as this was the first time a music director of repute had bowed before a contestant.
 
