
# Mum who drank 40 cuppas a day buried in giant box of Typhoo tea coffin

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:29:10+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, Adrian Troughton, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mum-who-drank-40-cuppas-20793419)

A woman who drank 40 cups of tea a day was buried in a giant box of her favourite brand.
Before Tina Watson died of heart failure she was very clear about how she wanted to be sent off.
For the whole of her life the Leicester woman had harboured an intense and enduring love of tea, Leicester Mercury reported.
At its peak she was knocking back 40 cups a day, which equated to a fresh brew every 24 minutes if she slept an average amount.
Tina first announced her intentions to be buried in a Typhoo box to her daughter Debs Donovan.
 
“It’s typical of mum,” said Debs, of Braunstone Town, Leicestershire.
“She had a wicked sense of humour and drank about 30 or 40 cups of tea a day, every day. She just loved having a cuppa.
“We got chatting about her coffin after the funeral of my stepdad Peter four years ago.
“She just blurted out: ‘I want to be buried in a coffin that looks like a giant box of tea bags.’
“I burst out laughing and said: ‘Okay, but it's got to be Typhoo because you only get an ‘oo’ with Typhoo.
 
"Mum cracked up at that and we just fell about laughing. She said she was deadly serious about the coffin so that was that.”
The curious final request was realised by funeral director Paul Pender.
He said: “It was one of our more unusual requests but we were happy to be able to make it happen.
“I got in touch with the guy that helps us with customised coffins and he produced the goods.
“It is always nice when the customer gets what the customer wants.”
Family and friends of the tea enthusiast said their final goodbyes at Gilroes Crematorium in Leicester on Friday.
Despite keeping her wicked sense of humour until the last, Tina did not have the easiest of lifes.
She was twice diagnosed with cancer and beat it both times, before having both of her legs amputated.
“She lost one leg after the bite got infected after being bitten by an insect in Spain 14 years ago,” said Debs.
“Mum then lost the other leg when the infection spread further.
"She never let anything get her down. She always saw the funny side of things even when there wasn’t a funny side.”
