
# Mum's agony after smiley five-month-old baby boy dies following 'normal' pregnancy

Published at: **2019-11-04T18:49:53+00:00**

Author: **Amber Hicks, Mark Smith, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/mums-agony-after-smiley-five-20811301)

A mum whose baby boy died aged five months old has said she will never forget the cheeky youngster who brought so much happiness into her life.
Natasha Jenson gave birth to Jenson John Hill while she was just 26 weeks pregnant.
The tiny tot weighed just one pound and four ounces and suffered several major complications, reports Wales Online.
He died on October 5, but during his short life - in which he never left hospital - he made Natasha so proud with his tenacious spirit.
The 24-year-old has paid tribute to "amazing" hospital staff at the neonatal intensive care unit at the University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, who did everything they could to keep her baby son alive.
"I will never forget Jenson," she said. "He was so cheeky and nothing phased him at all.
 
"Most babies tend to be very tired and sleepy after operations - but not him. He was wide awake and wanted to pull all his wires out.
"He did so many things that he shouldn't have been able to do."
Natasha, from Townhill in Swansea, went through a perfectly normal pregnancy until she went for a routine scan at Singleton Hospital in May.
"I had a late miscarriage in 2016 so they were keeping a close eye on me throughout this pregnancy," she recalled.
"I went in for a scan on May 16, just to make sure the baby was growing fine. But they soon realised that there was no water [surrounding the baby] and that there were gaps in my umbilical cord.
"I was sent straight to the labour ward and I gave birth later that day at 1.50pm. It was so scary."
Natasha said there were two groups of doctors in the operating theatre - one to look after her following her emergency c-section and the other to look after Jenson.
"In many babies that premature their eyes are fused shut, but Jenson's were wide open which was a good sign," she added.
"He was so, so small that I could hold him in one hand. He had a little bag around him to keep his body heat in."
Following two weeks at Singleton, Jenson was transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit at the University Hospital of Wales (UHW).
Doctors discovered that the tot had milk curd syndrome - where the milk was becoming stuck in his bowel - and would need an emergency operation.
"His stomach was getting bigger and bigger and he was showing signs of being in pain. His heart rate and pulse were also high," added Natasha.
"He was still absolutely tiny, and just over two weeks old, when he had the first lot of emergency surgery.
"A stoma was put in and he was fine, but a fortnight or so after that milk curds were still present so he needed the same operation carried out again - and this time he needed four stomas in total."
However, the milk curd syndrome, coupled with his under-developed lungs, proved too much for Jenson to cope with and he died on October 5.
"Jenson had the best care ever, and the staff ended up being like family," added Natasha, who stayed at the Ronald McDonald House, an accommodation block next to the children's hospital, during her son's four-month stint at UHW.
A GoFundMe page was set up in Jenson's honour by Natasha's close friend Abigail Woodward.
The money raised initially went towards covering the cost of the baby's funeral which took place late last month, but now all additional proceeds will go towards the UHW neonatal unit.
To donate click here.
