
# 10 Images Of Some Of Benni's Memorable Moments

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/benni-mccarthy-s-memorable-moments-at-cape-town-city/666722)

Benni McCarthy’s time with Cape Town City came to an end this weekend and Soccer Laduma takes a look at some of his memorable moments at the helm.
The 41-year-old is set to return home to Scotland to be with his family, as he plans for the next chapter of his coaching career following a bitter end to his time with the Citizens. 

        
          Read more: Benni Breaks Silence After City Exit
        
      
Despite going eight games without a win for City this season, McCarthy’s contribution to the City set-up cannot be ignored. 
After winning the treble with Orlando Pirates during his final years as a professional player, the former Bafana Bafana international went on to lead City to a fifth place finish in his first season as a head coach, a fourth place finish in his second campaign and won one out of two cup finals he has reached.
McCarthy has been instrumental to the success of the Citizens and played a big role in bringing together the supporters in the Mother City. 
While he’s also tried his best to get his team to play entertaining football, the head coach also leaves behind some memorable moments on the touchline, where he was often seen getting involved in arguments and sometimes scuffles with the opposition.
Now as he looks to move on from the Citizens, it remains to be seen what lies ahead for the head coach.

        Click through the gallery to view some images of McCarthy’s stint with City.  
      

        
          Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
