
# 'Dominated' - Aston Villa boss makes this Wolves claim

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:23:00+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Preece, https://www.facebook.com/PreeceBirminghamLive/, Richard Cusack**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/aston-villa-wolves-premier-league-17175344)

Aston Villa make the short 21-mile trip to West Midlands rivals Wolverhampton Wanderers on Sunday (2pm) for their latest Premier League clash.
Dean Smith 's side will be hoping to put an end to their two-match losing run following defeats to Manchester City and Liverpool, the latter a gut-wrenching 2-1 defeat at Villa Park on Saturday.
Villa and Wolves are well-acquainted after their recent dalliances in the Championship, both sides earning promotion one year after the other back to the Premier League.
And now they will meet in the top flight for the first time since 2012, when Villa secured a 3-2 win at Molineux.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
The rivalry was stoked last week, when Villa dumped Wolves out of the Carabao Cup in the fourth round win to set up a quarter-final tie with Liverpool.
And Smith offered his verdict on the match when he was quizzed about Wolves in the press conference afterward.
"We dominated the football, both teams made a lot changes," he said .
"My only gripe is we didn't put the game to bed earlier with all the possession we've had and, as can be just one goal ahead, we gave them opportunities to score and they took that and had a helping hand, we had a crazy two minutes.
"Jed (Steer) made a good save and we saw the game out comfortably."
