
# Chiefs Move Seven Points Clear Of Sundowns

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:26:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/absa-premiership-report-chippa-united-v-kaizer-chiefs-06-november-2019/666910)


        Absa Premiership
      
Result: Chippa United 0-2 Kaizer Chiefs
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium
Kaizer Chiefs, who were without Khama Billiat, moved seven points clear of second-place Mamelodi Sundowns with a 2-0 victory over Chippa United on Wednesday evening.

        
          Click through the gallery to see images from Chiefs' win over Chippa.
        
      
Ernst Middendorp rang the changes following the penalty shoot-out victory over Orlando Pirates in the Telkom Knokout, as Bruce Bvuma, Lazarous Kambole, Bernard Parker, Philani Zulu and Kgotso Moleko earned starts, while Khama Billiat and Lebogang Manyama missed out completely.
Both sides played 120 minutes in Telkom Knockout over the weekend, but it was the Chilli Boys who came out the blocks much quicker as Slias Maziya and Boikanyo Komane went close to scoring in the opening 15 minutes, although Bvuma was alert between the sticks.
Chiefs had to wait until the 27th minute for a clear-cut opening when Siyabonga Ngezana rose well to meet a corner, but the defender's header sailed over the crossbar from six-yards out with Patrick Tigyemb well beaten.
Chippa started the half brightly, but they suffered a double blow just before the halftime break as Frederic Nsabiyumva and Komane were both substituted due to injury, with Gregory Damons and Kurt Lentjies brought on as replacements.
Middendorp wasted no time in re-shuffling the pack at the start of the second half, as Moleko made way for George Maluleka as the visitors looked to take control.
Chiefs eventually got the breakthrough six minutes after the hour mark as Dumisani Zuma collected a pass from Willard Katsande before controlling well and slotting into the bottom corner from the edge of the box.
The visitors did not let up as Middendorp introduced Leonardo Castro for Kambole for the final 15 minutes, with the visitors looking to add to their tally.
The win was sealed in second-half stoppage time as Zuma completed his brace with a deflected effort past Tignyemb as Chiefs move seven points clear of Sundowns, who drew with Baroka.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      

        Here's how they lined up:
      
Chippa: 30. Tignyemb, 22. Modisane, 47. Nsabiyumva, 20. K. Moyo, 14. E. Moyo,13. Maphangule, 33. Mahola, 44. Komane, 11. Maziya, 15. Kwem, 40. Twala.
Subs: Mazibuko, 9. L. Manzini, 19. R, Manzini, Mthethwa, 32. Lentjies, 17. Damons, 8. Rakhale.
Chiefs: 44. Bvuma, 18. Moleko, 36. Ntiya-Ntiya, 30. Ngezana, 22. Zulu, 4. Cardoso, 31. Katsande, 28. Zuma, 25. Parker, 7. Kambole, 9. Nurkovic.
Subs: 43. Akpeyi, 8. Castro, 26. Gordinho, 12. Maluleka, 2. Mphahlele, 18. Mahlasela, 45. Blom.
