
# What channel is England vs South Africa on? Rugby World Cup Final TV and live stream information

Published at: **2019-11-02T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/what-channel-england-vs-south-20786919)

Eddie Jones faces his day with destiny as England take on South Africa in the Rugby World Cup Final.
Jones had always claimed that he was building England for success at this year's competition and he has guided them to the final.
But after a sensational performance against New Zealand in the semi-finals, have England peaked one game too soon?
The Red Rose are unchanged for the final - the first time Jones has named an identical starting line-up for around three years.
Here is all you need to know ahead of the match...
England vs South Africa takes place on the morning of Saturday November 2.
Kick-off, for those in the UK, will be at 9am.
For those in the UK, the Rugby World Cup Final will again be shown on ITV, just like the rest of the competition has been.
Coverage of the match begins two hours before kick-off, with punditry starting from 7am.
If you are in the UK, you will be able to live stream the match completely free of charge.
ITV can be streamed on their website if you click on the 'watch live' tab on their homepage.
Starting: Elliot Daly; Anthony Watson, Manu Tuilagi, Owen Farrell, Jonny May, George Ford, Ben Youngs; Mako Vunipola, Jamie George, Kyle Sinckler, Maro Itoje, Courtney Lawes, Tom Curry, Sam Underhill, Billy Vunipola
Replacements:  Luke Cowan-Dickie, Joe Marler, Dan Cole, George Kruis, Mark Wilson, Ben Spencer, Henry Slade, Jonathan Joseph
Starting : Willie Le Roux, Cheslin Kolbe, Lukhanyo Am, Damian de Allende, Makazole Mapimpi, Handre Pollard, Faf de Klerk, Duane Vermeulen, Pieter-Steph Du Toit, Siya Kolisi, Lood de Jager, Eben Etzebeth, Frans Malherbe, Mbongeni Mbonambi, Tendai Mtawarira
Replacements: Malcolm Marx, Steven Kitshoff, Vincent Koch, RG Snyman, Franco Mostert, Francois Louw, Herschel Jantjies, Frans Steyn.

        Odds courtesy of ThePools.com
      

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
