
# Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:59:19+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/04/premier-league-10-talking-points-weekend-football)


        Pulisic’s long wait pays off, Rodgers helps Vardy roll back the years and Nuno the perfectionist is back on track
      
“Perfection doesn’t exist but we are always chasing it,” Nuno Espírito Santo said after Wolves’ thoroughly deserved draw at Arsenal. It was a nice line from a manager who tends to prefer that his players’ performances do the talking. While his side were nowhere near flawless on Saturday they were certainly impressive: there is no doubt Wolves are one of the best-coached teams in the Premier League and they look back to their old selves now after an uncertain, Europa League-addled start to the campaign. They have not lost in the top flight since mid-September and a four-point haul from their visits to the Etihad and the Emirates suggests they will lift themselves into contention for this season’s European spots. Wolves do not offer a thrill a minute but few sides have their technical and tactical clarity; they dominated for sizeable periods and, even without the injured defender Willy Boly, are a formidable prospect once again. Nick Ames

        • Match report: Arsenal 1-1 Wolves
      
Liverpool’s win over Aston Villa on Saturday was achieved despite more VAR-related controversy. Afterwards Dean Smith said he was pleased that he and the other 19 Premier League managers will meet authorities this week to discuss changes to VAR. “They are talking to the right people,” Smith said. “I was at a meeting last Thursday and every manager is going to another meeting this Thursday. Then the CEOs and the Premier League will get together and decide where they’re taking it. You can’t scrap it now, there are 28 countries using it. We all wanted it to find the right decisions but there was always going to be teething problems. We need to find a happy medium. I feel they’re taking a little bit of authority away from the referee. If he thinks it’s a goal and VAR are telling him there’s something [to disallow it] other than a factual reason, I’d like him to go over and have a look himself.” Paul Doyle

        • Match report: Aston Villa 1-2 Liverpool
      
Gareth Southgate has chopped and changed his defence since taking charge of England three years ago, with Fikayo Tomori, last month, the 13th different centre-back called up to the squad on his watch. Could Steve Cook be the 14th? Lewis Dunk, a friend of the 28-year-old’s from his time at Brighton, from whom he signed for £170,000 seven years ago, and Tyrone Mings, who played second fiddle to Cook at Bournemouth, have both been given chances by Southgate and the form of the Bournemouth captain, who shone on his 150th Premier League appearance on Saturday, is not likely to have gone unnoticed. “Gareth leaves no stone unturned, so all he has to do is to continue to perform at his consistent best for us,” said the Bournemouth manager, Eddie Howe. “Displays like that [against Manchester United on Saturday], where he was, for me, pretty faultless throughout are certainly going to do his cause no harm.” Ben Fisher

        • Match report: Bournemouth 1-0 Manchester United
      
Graham Potter’s Brighton moved into the top half of the table with Saturday’s 2-0 victory over Norwich City. Although it might seem natural to think of the 3-0 home win against Tottenham a month ago as a turning point in their season, the feeling among fans is the fortunate 3-2 victory against Everton last week was more of a watershed moment. Saturday’s Leandro Trossard-inspired victory over Norwich sent Brighton up to eighth, two places above Manchester United, to whom they travel on Sunday. The days when clubs of Brighton’s stature visited Old Trafford aiming merely for damage limitation are long gone. With their summer recruit Trossard fit, Brighton will face Ole Gunnar Solskjær’s misfiring United believing they can register a third straight win in the Premier League. Luke McLaughlin

        • Match report: Brighton 2-0 Norwich
      
Brendan Rodgers has admitted Jamie Vardy’s renaissance at Leicester is down to a “more synchronised” approach to defending from the front. The former England striker scored his 10th Premier League goal of the season against Crystal Palace on Sunday to move one ahead of Sergio Agüero and Tammy Abraham in the race for the Golden Boot, and is scoring at a rate that would see him surpass the 24 he racked up in Leicester’s title-winning season. “He’s not having to press the whole back four,” Rodgers said. “Jamie is a guy who would run all day for you, so now he is doing shorter bursts, which he is very good at. He’s also playing more central and staying on the last man because he is such a threat. He is a really top striker for this level and he is really enjoying his football.” Leicester are six points clear of fifth-placed Arsenal, who they host on Saturday. Ed Aarons

        • Match report: Crystal Palace 0-2 Leicester
      
It is not exactly an exclusive to report that VAR decisions are taking too long. The 12 minutes of added time that allowed Everton to claim an equaliser were not all down to André Gomes’s horrific injury: there was a ridiculous three-minute delay to come to a conclusion about the ball hitting Dele Alli on the arm in the home penalty area. The ball did hit Alli on the arm, the arm was over the player’s head, so why no penalty? Taking three minutes then deciding nothing was amiss strongly suggests the Stockley Park officials had differing opinions. VAR is good at seeing everything but we are still no further down the road to consistency, and three minutes is simply too long for players to stand around scratching their heads, especially if it happens two or three times a game. We keep being told the process will get slicker and speedier. But opinions and arguments, it appears, are not to be rushed. Paul Wilson

        • Match report: Everton 1-1 Tottenham
      
