
# Parker: Capexco master plan for Symons Valley Ranch includes farmers' market

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:50+00:00**

Author: **David Parker, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/business/local-business/around-town-capexco-master-plan-for-symons-valley-ranch-includes-farmers-market)

Symons Valley Ranch has a long history dating back to 1968 when Les and Ellen Jones started a hospitality facility that just kept growing and became a happy venue for all kinds of family celebrations and corporate events.
A fire in 1989 destroyed three banquet buildings but new ownership in 2004 renovated the property and added a farmers’ market that attracted dozens of small business vendors.
Durham Properties purchased it in 2012, but while negotiations were underway for its sale to Capexco another fire swept through the buildings in early 2017 and they were all lost.
But the sale went through and Capexco, a Calgary-based real estate developer, principal investor and asset manager, has since been planning not only to resurrect the popular farmers’ market but also develop the entire 12.5-hectare site area with a master plan that will include residential, commercial, office and park use.
Located in a huge growth corridor north of Sage Hill and part of the new Glacier Ridge community, at build-out it can accommodate 1,540 residential units, 350,000 square feet of office/institutional space and over 200,000 square feet of retail/commercial.
Not a task for the faint of heart but the principals of the company have lots of experience and currently are also developing a major mixed-use project on the northern outskirts of San Diego, negotiating to purchase a heritage building in the city’s downtown core and building an 18,000-square-foot retail centre in Orange County.
Executive chair and founding shareholder of Capexco, Dave Hall, has 15 years of active experience in real estate and was general partner of a 55,000-square-foot hospitality development in Canmore. President Marco DeDominicis includes in his work experience 30 years in commercial concrete cast-and-place and residential formwork, and CEO Trent Claughton has been a founder, principal or partner for a number of successful investment and financial services companies across North America and Europe.
The new Symons Valley Ranch is earmarked as a community activity centre and in seeking to preserve the site’s ranching and agricultural legacy will raise the awareness of how food and nutrition play such an important part in our well-being.
Land use has been approved by the City of Calgary and the next step will be to apply for a development permit to begin construction of the new farmers’ market that is designed as a 40,000-square-foot food hall on a walkable high street, supporting local ranching and agricultural jobs.
Part of a Sustainable Economic Evolution District vision the market will complement Capexco’s plan to attract academic and research institutions, agri-sciences and health services companies in a business campus that will also include mainstream office and retail.
Claughton has been collaborating with Chris Paterson, Xarvio Digital Farming Solutions lead for North America at BASF, who feels the Symons Valley Ranch development could be a real plus for Calgary. “We have the best concentration of agricultural companies in North America,” he says. “Symons Valley is well located within easy reach of Olds College, the international airport and lots of farmers; an innovative cluster of companies involved in agricultural research and development would be a great boost.”
The vibrant innovation hub will also offer a variety of housing choices allowing the future workforce to reside within the community.
DeDominicis and Claughton have spent a lot of time touring like developments in southern California and throughout the U.S. in search of the best community enhancement development ideas for their Symons Valley concept. An example of their findings will see a parkade structure hidden between multi-family and office buildings and the village shops and farmers’ market that will be a pedestrian-only area.
Capexco has contracted the local commercial real estate firms of Roman Real Estate and Schell Brothers Real Estate to bring in development partners for the commercial and high-density residential components of the exciting project.
Wrapped around the new market, Symons Valley Ranch is destined to become a vibrant and energetic community where people can come to live, work, play and celebrate health, wellness and how food gets from farm to table.
David Parker appears regularly in the Herald. Read his columns online at calgaryherald.com/business. He can be reached at 403-830-4622 or by email at info@davidparker.ca.
