
# IBPS PO Prelims Results 2019: Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) declares IBPS PO Prelims Results 2019 @ ibps.in

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:58:38+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/india/ibps-po-prelims-results-2019-institute-of-banking-personnel-selection-ibps-declares-ibps-po-prelims-results-2019-ibps-in/271257/)

IBPS PO Prelims Results 2019: The Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) has declared the results for IBPS PO Prelims Results 2019 on its official website ibps.in. The mains exam will be held on 30 November.

        Follow these steps to access your results
      
The IBPS PO Preliminary Exam consisted of 100 multiple-choice questions, divided into three sections. To be successful in this exam, a candidate was required to qualify in each of these sections.

        About IBPS
      
The Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) is a recruitment body that was established with an aim to encourage the recruitment and placement of young graduates in public sector banks in India, other than the State Bank of India. It also provides standardised systems for assessment and result processing services to organisations.
IBPS currently functions as an autonomous body that is mainly engaged in conducting competitive exams for recruitment to clerical and officers’ posts in the banking sector.
Earlier, candidates had to write multiple exams conducted by each bank for their vacancies. But from 2012, the Recruitment process has been changed. Now IBPS conducts four different recruitment processes namely CRP PO/MT, CRP RRBs, CRP Clerical, CRP Specialist Officers under which various exams take place every year for banking sector recruitment.
 
