
# Court closures lead to fights as gang rivals share waiting rooms

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:00:22+00:00**

Author: **Helen Pidd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/04/court-closures-fights-gang-rivals-share-waiting-rooms)


        Experts say ‘postcode’ violence is breaking out in London’s remaining youth courts
      
Fights are breaking out in youth court waiting rooms as gang members from rival areas have appearances scheduled at the same time because of closures, experts have said.
A London-based criminal lawyer who was the youth justice practitioner on the Law Society criminal law committee until last year said violence was breaking out in magistrates courts after 15 of 33 in the capital had been closed since 2010.
“Across Lambeth, Greenwich, Lewisham and Southwark, where 1.2 million people live, there’s not a youth court. That is just appalling,” Greg Stewart said. “All of those kids now go to Bromley, where there are wars breaking out with gangs of kids showing up and being dealt with from boroughs all across south London.
“They shouldn’t be there. They should be in local courts, with local practitioners, with their parents able to afford to go with them.”
He said an experienced security guard at Bromley youth court was being moved to another job because he was “fed up of pulling kids apart who were trying to fight each other in waiting rooms”.
Stewart also said the remaining youth courts in London were sitting until 7pm on some days because the caseload was so high. “These closures are starting to bite the Ministry of Justice back,” he said.
Some defendants say they are now too scared to attend court, or have been attacked on arrival.
Charlie Taylor, the head of the Youth Justice Board for England and Wales, said he had concerns about “postcode issues” arising when members of rival London gangs ended up in the same court.
Taylor said courts were doing their best to mitigate issues, citing the example of Highbury Corner youth court, which now serves six boroughs. “They try to do an Islington day and a Hackney day or whatever,” he said, but “there is a risk that if someone has been in the cells and they are bailed and there is beef between those groups then it could be an issue.
“Touch wood there hasn’t been anything serious I have heard of but it’s something to watch out for.”
