
# NHL roundup: Isles top Sens, stretch win streak to 10

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:44:50+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-icehockey-nhl-roundup-idUSKBN1XG0YL)

Cole Bardreau scored his first NHL goal — on a penalty shot — to give the red-hot New York Islanders the lead for good Tuesday night, when the Islanders ran their winning streak to 10 games with a 4-1 victory over the visiting Ottawa Senators.
Cal Clutterbuck, Casey Cizikas and Josh Bailey also scored for the Islanders, whose winning streak is the second-longest in team history behind only a 15-game run during the 1981-82 season, when New York won the third of four straight Stanley Cups. It is also the longest winning streak in the NHL since the Tampa Bay Lightning won 10 in a row from Feb. 9-27, 2019.
Islanders goalie Thomas Greiss recorded 27 saves.
Jean-Gabriel Pageau scored for the Senators, who have alternated losses with wins over the last seven games. Ottawa’s Craig Anderson made 28 saves.
Canadiens 5, Bruins 4
Ben Chiarot scored the tiebreaking goal in the third period as host Montreal snapped Boston’s six-game winning streak.
Victor Mete scored twice, Tomas Tatar posted a goal and an assist, and Paul Byron also tallied for the Canadiens, who won for the fourth time in five games. Jeff Petry recorded two assists, Chiarot added an assist for a two-point night, and Canadiens goalie Carey Price made 21 saves.
Boston’s David Pastrnak extended his career-best point streak to 13 games with his NHL-leading 15th goal. Torey Krug notched an assist on the goal for his 300th career point. Connor Clifton, Anders Bjork and Sean Kuraly scored for the Bruins, and Rask (26 saves) fell to 7-1-1.
Sharks 4, Blackhawks 2
Patrick Marleau scored a goal while becoming the sixth player in NHL history to play in 800 consecutive games and Timo Meier and Tomas Hertl both had a goal and an assist to lead host San Jose past Chicago.
Marleau joined Doug Jarvis (964), Garry Unger (914), Steve Larmer (884), Andrew Cogliano (830) and Keith Yandle (811) as the only players in NHL history to play in 800 consecutive games.
Brandon Saad and Duncan Keith scored goals for Chicago, which wrapped up its four-game road trip with a 1-2-1 record. Robin Lehner finished with 28 saves.
Golden Knights 2, Blue Jackets 1
Reilly Smith scored two goals and Marc-Andre Fleury stopped 29 shots for his league-leading ninth victory as visiting Vegas snapped a two-game losing streak with a win at Columbus.
It was the 15th career two-goal game for Smith, who has now scored against every team in the National Hockey League. William Karlsson added two assists to extend his points streak to five games and also reach 200 career points.
Boone Jenner scored for Columbus, which had its winless streak extended to five games (0-4-1). Joonas Korpisalo finished with 23 saves as the Blue Jackets fell to 0-7-3 when not scoring the game’s first goal.
Flyers 4, Hurricanes 1
Sean Couturier and Claude Giroux each had a goal and an assist as Philadelphia cruised past Carolina to improve to 5-1-1- at home in the early season.
Travis Konecny and Joel Farabee each had one goal while Matt Niskanen registered two assists for the victorious Flyers, who got 33 saves from goaltender Carter Hart.
Lucas Wallmark scored the lone goal for the Hurricanes, who dropped their second in a row immediately following a three-game winning streak. Hurricanes goaltender Petr Mrazek stopped 24 shots.
Stars 4, Avalanche 1
Radek Faksa scored two goals and red-hot Dallas extended its winning streak to four with an easy win over visiting Colorado.
With a 7-1-0 record in their past eight games, the Stars have recovered from an ugly 1-7-1 start to the season. Two of the wins in Dallas’ current four-game run have come against Colorado in the last five days.
The Avalanche are on the opposite track from their Central Division rivals. Colorado is now winless in five games (0-4-1) after posting an 8-1-1 record over its first 10 outings.
Flames 4, Coyotes 3 (OT)
Matthew Tkachuk scored twice, including the game winner, and added an assist as Calgary erased a late two-goal deficit and beat Arizona at home.
With 33.9 seconds remaining in overtime, Tkachuk appeared poised to send a pass across the crease, but instead ripped home a five-hole shot for the winning tally. Flames goalie David Rittich stopped 34 shots, including five in overtime, in the comeback victory.
Goalie Antti Raanta stopped 39 shots for the Coyotes, who were on the verge of sweeping Alberta after beating the Edmonton Oilers in overtime the night before.
Maple Leafs 3, Kings 1
Auston Matthews and William Nylander scored goals 30 seconds apart in the third period and Toronto defeated visiting Los Angeles.
Matthews jammed in his 12th goal of the season from the edge of the crease at 12:36 of the third period to snap a tie. Nylander and Andreas Johnsson earned the assists.
Nylander took advantage of a Kings turnover, worked a give-and-go with Matthews and scored his fourth goal of the season on the backhand at 13:06.
Devils 2, Jets 1 (SO)
Nikita Gusev and Jesper Boqvist scored in the shootout, Mackenzie Blackwood made a sprawling pad save on Patrik Laine to end the game as visiting New Jersey snapped a seven-game losing streak to Winnipeg.
A month after blowing a 4-0 lead in a 5-4 home loss to Winnipeg in their season opener, the Devils improved to 2-0-0 on a five-game road trip and improved to 4-1-2 in their past seven games.
Gusev scored in the first round of the shootout by slowly weaving up the ice and ripping a wrist shot through Connor Hellebuyck’s pads. Boqvist made a similar move, and his shot bounced off Hellebuyck’s pads, off the post and into the net.
Blues 2, Canucks 1 (OT)
Jaden Schwartz converted a 3-on-0 overtime break-in as visiting St. Louis defeated Vancouver.
The Blues won for the seventh time in their last eight games. The Canucks have earned points in all six home games, going 4-0-2.
Tyler Bozak also scored for the Blues and Jordan Binnington stopped 33 of 34 shots. Rookie defenseman Quinn Hughes, back in the lineup after missing one game with a bruised knee, scored for the Canucks.
Wild 4, Ducks 2
Eric Staal scored the go-ahead goal early in the third period as visiting Minnesota rallied from a two-goal deficit to beat Anaheim.
Mats Zuccarello had a goal and an assist, and Kevin Fiala, Eric Staal and Zach Parise also scored for Minnesota. Wild goalie Alex Stalock made 29 saves in the victory as the Wild ended a three-game losing streak (0-2-1).
Rickard Rakell and Jacob Larsson scored goals for the Ducks, who lost their second consecutive game at home (0-1-1) after opening the season 6-1-0 in their own building.
—Field Level Media
