
# How Educational Partnerships With Industry Benefit Students And Companies: The Clinic Program

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Maria Klawe**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mariaklawe/2019/11/01/how-educational-partnerships-with-industry-benefit-students-and-companies-the-clinic-program/)

As our society becomes increasingly technological, STEM education must evolve and innovate to ensure we are launching effective engineers, scientists and mathematicians into industry and academia. Innovation and creative problem-solving skills are key to meeting society’s needs, strengthening the national economy and solving global problems. Industry partnerships are an effective way for educational institutions to ensure that their students are working on cutting-edge technologies and gaining practical experience. Companies also benefit greatly from the input and fresh perspectives students bring.
In 1963, Harvey Mudd College pioneered innovation in STEM education by creating the Clinic Program, the first engineering program that partnered teams of students with industry. Following the same model first conceived, a Clinic team of four or five students works with a faculty advisor for a full academic year to solve a business challenge the company faces. Results typically range from developing prototypes, creating new manufacturing processes, delivering critical computer code, and exploring new ways for companies to analyze data.
Harvey Mudd’s Clinic Program has served as a model for engineering departments around the country. Many colleges and universities have adopted similar capstone programs, including Stanford University in California, Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in Massachusetts, Texas A&M University, and Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in Indiana. At Harvey Mudd, all computer science and engineering majors must take a full year of Clinic. Students in mathematics and physics may elect to take Clinic as their capstone experience, and biology and chemistry majors can participate in a Clinic project alongside their thesis capstone. 
Programs like Clinic offer students an opportunity to channel their initiative, drive and intelligence in a real-world setting in partnership with corporate, national laboratory, agency and nonprofit sponsors. The student teams gain technical and professional skills as they work with the company’s liaisons to understand and meet project requirements, develop and adhere to budgets, and manage weekly progress reports and regular communication with their “client.”
Companies value the fresh perspective and technical expertise students bring to their company, and often reap measurable value in terms of cost savings, product development and code for a new feature. Many sponsors file patent disclosures at the conclusion of their projects. The intellectual property belongs wholly to the sponsor, which can ease obstacles for companies who would like to participate in the program. Clinic sponsors also see a benefit in recruiting students from Harvey Mudd, as students spend a year talking with peers (within the bounds of any NDAs) about the work they do on their projects. Students also present their projects multiple times throughout the year (also respecting NDAs.)
Recently, I asked two Clinic sponsor liaisons, Aaron Gable, a software engineer for Google Chrome, and Edward Vander Bilt, Innovation Leader Information Technology for Steelcase Inc., to talk about their experiences with Harvey Mudd’s Clinic Program. I also spoke with Harvey Mudd’s senior director of corporate relations, Colleen Coxe, about the benefits of the program for sponsors and students.
Maria Klawe:  How did you learn about the Harvey Mudd Clinic Program?   
Edward Vander Bilt: We were made aware of the Clinic program through computer science professor Jim Boerkoel, whom we had previously done collaboration work with while he was a postdoc researcher at MIT. Jim knew about the challenges we faced within manufacturing and thought that Clinic was a good model for helping Steelcase to explore new solutions to manufacturing challenges.
Aaron Gable: I graduated from Harvey Mudd in 2012 as a joint computer science and math major. The Clinic Program was part of why I'd selected Harvey Mudd as a freshman in the first place. I ended up working on LAMMPS, a finite-element + molecular dynamics simulator, for Sandia National Lab. The experience was certainly a good one overall, despite (or perhaps because of) the usual difficulties of learning to work as a team, communicating with remote liaisons, and diving into a large and complex codebase.
Klawe: What can you tell me about the Clinic project for which you were a liaison?
Vander Bilt: We have been involved in four previous Clinics at Harvey Mudd, with the fifth starting last month, all related to the same topic of how to use computer vision and machine learning to enhance our quality control systems within our wood product business.
Gable: The Chromium Project is the open-source project which powers the Chromium and Chrome web browsers, as well as Chrome OS, Opera, and a variety of other browsers and products. One of the difficulties that users frequently encounter is the large amount of memory (RAM) that Chrome consumes; the high memory usage of any given web page is exacerbated by the tabbed-browsing model, in which a user may have dozens of tabs open, each using a large amount of memory on its own. The project was to investigate and prototype a system by which inactive tabs could have their entire state—web content, scroll position, partially-filled forms, JavaScript execution, and more—frozen and saved to the hard drive so that all of that memory could be freed up for use by other tabs. And, of course, the tabs would need to be able to be restored from disk as well.
Klawe: What skills did you see the students gaining during the project? 
Vander Bilt: It seems that most of the students had not previously been exposed to manufacturing industrial systems and through Clinic learned much about how a large manufacturing operation works and the challenges that are faced. Overall, they gained real-world experience that should make them better prepared as they continue their career paths beyond Harvey Mudd.
Gable: Clinic gives students opportunities to experience things that most internships don't: leading a team, remote work and heaps of ambiguity. Not all of these are skills are required in all software engineering roles, but they are skills that are good to cultivate regardless, and good to know whether or not you naturally excel at them.
Klawe: What kind of impact did the program have on your company?
Vander Bilt: The work the Clinic team accomplished provided Steelcase with a significant leap forward in a new way of leveraging technology to enhance our processes. The team did a great job of quickly coming up to speed with the challenge and the nuisances of working with a natural product such as wood. We knew with certainty that this team hit on something significant.
Clinic has benefited Steelcase in a variety of ways. The first, of course, is the work product that the teams produced and prototypes they delivered. These have led to new production systems and processes within our quality control. This has resulted in both cost savings and waste reduction, playing right into the company’s sustainability strategy, which seeks to improve environmental, economic and social aspects of our company. Lastly, it has provided an excellent resource to challenge our own internal thinking and bring fresh outside thinking into our company.
Gable: I felt that the project was very successful. The team learned about the guts of Chrome, came to understand its multi-process model and communication, dissected its security boundaries, and built a prototype implementation of the save-and-restore feature. In the process of doing so, they discovered two key facts: restoring an entire tab from disk can be very slow, and doing so requires breaking Chrome's security model in unacceptable ways. As a result, we decided not to incorporate the feature into Chrome itself. However, the project was a very successful demonstration of the capabilities and limits of such a system and allowed the team to make a very informed decision.
Klawe: How have you seen the program impact students?
Colleen Coxe: For the students, the benefits extend well beyond the opportunity to help solve real-world problems and the possibility of landing a job after graduation. The applied professional experience and soft skills they gain can easily transfer over into the workplace no matter where they go. In addition to working in teams, Clinic students learn to build agendas and manage weekly meetings and teleconferences with Clinic liaisons. In spring semester, they present their progress multiple times to multiple groups. In May, they give public presentations about how they approached the problem and what results they generated, while complying with the non-disclosure agreements. They gain excellent communication skills.
Klawe: Colleen, what from your perspective draws sponsors to the program?
Coxe: One of distinguishing factors for Harvey Mudd’s Clinic program is the complete transfer of intellectual property to the sponsor. There is no transfer fee, no licensing, no shared equity. Many companies do a project and see tangible returns on their investment of time and money—in some cases millions in revenue gains or savings. Many teams figure out a way to do something more efficiently at the company. For a lot of companies, that big return on investment will tend to keep them coming back. Some companies become sponsors because they want to raise the visibility of their company at Harvey Mudd in order to find students who are interested in working for them, and those may be students who are on their Clinic team or other students who become interested in what the team and company are doing. 
