
# Incognito Mode for Google Maps is now rolling out to Android users

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:20:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/incognito-mode-google-maps-now-rolling-out-android-users?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
The Incognito feature for Maps, which was announced by Google earlier this month, has finally started rolling out (via Android Police) to users. As the name of the feature clearly suggests, incognito mode ensures your Maps activity such as the places you search for, aren't saved.
When you enable incognito Mode in Maps, the app will not save your browse or search history and nor will it update your location history or shared location. Google will also not use any personal data to personalize Maps for you. However, enabling the feature doesn't disable all tracking. As noted by Google in its Maps Help forums, internet providers, voice search, other apps, and certain Google services can still track your activity.
To enable incognito mode on an Android device, you will have to open the Google Maps app and then tap on your profile picture. Next, tap on "Turn on incognito mode."
As expected, the feature is being rolled out in stages. This means it may take a few days for the incognito mode in Maps to become available to all users. While the feature is currently being rolled out only to Android devices, Google says it will soon be making its way to Maps users on iOS as well.

        Google will let you report more types of road incidents on Maps
      

        Double the fun For developers, Surface Neo and Duo represent a unique opportunity Surface Duo and Surface Neo are some of the most enticing devices Microsoft has ever announced. But how will developers take advantage of these new foldables?
      

        Binge time Hulu's offline downloads finally rolling out for Android users After adding offline downloads earlier this month for iOS devices, Hulu has now added the feature to the Android app.
      

        Done deal Google has officially purchased Fitbit for $2.1 billion Following a report from earlier this week, it's now been confirmed that Google has acquired Fitbit for a total of $2.1 billion.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
