
# Orpington bus crash driver spoke to daughter 20 minutes before he was killed

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:25:07+00:00**

Author: **Abigail O&#39;Leary**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/orpington-bus-crash-driver-spoke-20790162)

The bus driver killed in the Orpington smash late on Thursday night spoke to his daughter about his grandchildren just 20 minutes before the tragedy.
Kenneth Matcham, 60, died and 15 bus passengers were injured in a collision involving a car and two buses at around 10pm.
Dramatic images from the scene in Orpington, south east London, show debris scattered across the street, and both buses smashed-up by the side of the road.
Kenneth's daughter Shelley Gardner has told how she spoke to her dad just minutes before the crash when he was on his break.
She told the Mail: "He was on his break and called me to ask me if I'd taken the kids out trick or treating.
"I told him that I had and he said "where's my pictures then?"
"I sent them after I'd spoken to him. I made the kids get back in their Halloween outfits to take photos and send to dad and I'm so glad that I did that"
Shelley said her "lovely" father "didn't have a bad bone in his body" and was the type of person who would do anything for anyone.
A man, who police said was the driver of the car, was arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. He remains in custody.
The wrecked buses were still at the scene this morning, and local residents said that a house had also been damaged in the mayhem.
One horrified witness told the Sun the buses were travelling in opposite directions when they ploughed into each other.
Mark Jeffries said: "It was really horrific - the buses collided and then the car drove through the middle of them.
"One person was thrown through the window on one of the buses and it looked like people on the pavement were hit.
"The sounds were horrific - you could hear the screaming.
Witness Tariq Sheikh, 41, who lives in a flat overlooking the scene, said: "I heard a continuous wailing of sirens at around 10.30pm, and then just saw fire engines everywhere.
"The R11 bus crashed into the front wall of a house at the bottom of Tower Road, and then the other bus has swerved to the other side of the road.
"It's all a bit graphic. Everything is strewn everywhere. There's bits of cars, bits of buses.
"Looking at it now, there's two heavy duty recovery vehicles that are about to lift the buses out of the gardens. They are taking evidence from one of the buses as part of their clear up.
"There's a lot of gossip on an Oprington community Facebook page, saying the bus driver had been killed.
"It's all cordoned off. I was told I can't go and see my parents, who live down the road.
"I thought it was maybe a Halloween incident or something random like that. I was surprised to hear that wailing of sirens."
Scotland Yard confirmed that one man had died, and said that three others sustained "serious injuries".
A Met spokesman said: "Police were called to Sevenoaks Road in Orpington at 10.12pm on Thursday following a report of a road traffic collision.
"Officers, London Fire Brigade and London Ambulance Service all attended to a collision between two London buses and one car.
"One person was pronounced dead at the scene. Next of kin have been informed.
"Paramedics also treated 15 casualties, three of whom are suffering from serious injuries. The remaining have minor injuries.
"A man, the driver of the car, has been arrested on suspicion of death by dangerous driving, he is currently in police custody."
Six fire engines, two rescue units and around 60 firefighters attended the horror crash.
Graham Ellis, Assistant Commissioner of the London Fire Brigade, said: "Firefighters rescued several casualties from the buses and immediately undertook First Aid, being joined by colleagues from London Ambulance Service.
"Firefighters also made the vehicles and surrounding area safe."
