
# 15 Southwest Florida high school football teams set for playoff games

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:31:10+00:00**

Author: **WFTX Digital Team**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/sports/high-school/15-southwest-florida-high-school-football-teams-set-for-playoff-games)

LEE COUNTY, Fla. -- The high school football playoffs start this week, and 15 Southwest Florida teams have a shot at a state championship.
Class 7A:For the first time since 2004, Lehigh Acres will host a playoff game. The lightning will take on the Venice Indians this Friday at home.
Class 6A:There are a lot of teams in our area fighting for a 6A state title. The biggest name is Naples, who went undefeated and got the top seed in their region. They'll host South Fort Myers.
But the biggest match-up is likely North Fort Myers at Fort Myers. It'll be the second time in three years these heated rivals will play in the playoffs.
Other teams playing Friday include Dunbar playing a game at Miami Central, and Lely play at Dillard in Fort Lauderdale. Charlotte County is also represented by Charlotte High, who head to Fort Pierce to play Westwood; and Port Charlotte, who visit Hillsborough High in Tampa.
Class 5A:And how about Cypress Lake? Friday, they'll have their first playoff game since 1995! They'll host North Miami Beach.
Class 4A:Lemon Bay travels to Tampa Catholic for a Class 4A matchup.
Class 3A:Bishop Verot actually gets a bye week after going 8-2, and will play the winner of this week’s Cardinal Newman/Benjamin game.
Class 2A: St. John Neumann Catholic in Naples hosts Miami Christian, and Moore Haven goes to Naples to play First Baptist.
