
# Will ‘Mercury Retrograde’ Ruin Your Phone And Your Weekend? How To Separate The Facts From Fantasy

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Carter**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamiecartereurope/2019/11/01/will-mercury-retrograde-ruin-your-phone-and-your-weekend-how-to-separate-the-facts-from-fantasy/)

If you’ve been reading your daily horoscope, you may have seen warnings about how to “survive Mercury Retrograde.” Thought by astrologers to signal a time of panic, confusion, mix-ups and frustration when communication systems and devices can malfunction, there are two things going on in 2019: 
Some horoscopes warn that the period of Mercury retrograde is not a good time to buy electronics, to back-up computers and change passwords, and that communication systems, gadgets and computers could slowdown or malfunction. 
So what is really going on here? What is Mercury retrograde and how could it possibly affect our gadgets? Hint: it actually helps explain the wonders of the solar system and has absolutely zero impact on you or your gadgets. 
It’s when the inner planet Mercury appears to go in a backwards motion, and it’s happening now, as of today. In fact, it’s happening for the third time this year: 
Not much. It’s very, very normal. And yet it reveals something wonderful.
Mercury is the closest planet to the Sun and it pings back and forth either side of the sun every 88 days, swapping between being (just) visible low on then horizon either before just sunrise or just after sunset. In one Earth year, Mercury completes just over four orbits of the Sun, so three times a year it comes closest to Earth, something called “inferior conjunction.”
From Earth we don’t get to witness complete orbits of planets because we’re on an orbit around the sun ourselves, but it has another effect; each planet occasionally appears to go backwards for a few weeks, something called “apparent retrograde motion” by astronomers. 
Earth is orbiting the Sun much faster than the outer planets, so occasionally overtakes them. They then appear to be moving backwards for a short time. Here’s an easy way to think about that; a car traveling at 80 mph will appear to go backwards when viewed through the window of a passing car going at 90 mph.
For Mercury, it’s a little more complicated. Mercury’s orbit of the Sun is elliptical, and when it comes close to Earth during its “inferior conjunction”—now—it slows down. Earth overtakes it and—hey presto—Mercury appears to go backwards for a short period.
Astronomers and astrologers have long known that planets appear to go backwards, which is why planets acquired their name, which means “wanderers.” However, don’t underestimate its importance, for the sight of a planet appearing to go backwards is observational proof that the geocentric model—that everything in the night sky orbits Earth—is wrong, and that the heliocentric model is correct. The other evidence is that both of the inner planets, Mercury and Venus, have phases as viewed from Earth. 
So Mercury retrograde is, in fact, the basis for nothing less than the scientific revolution. Nicolaus Copernicus made sense of Mercury’s retrograde motion—and that of the outer planets, too—back in 1543 with that heliocentric model. In his wake came Galileo Galilei, Johannes Kepler and Isaac Newton and modern astronomy was born.
Let’s start by first considering what a horoscope is. It’s an astrological chart that represents the positions of the Sun, Moon and planets. A planet going backwards? Hmmm, weird. A planet going backwards during the reign of the star sign of Scorpio? Not good. Is any of that actually important? None of it is even true, let alone important. Here’s why: 
That’s to say nothing about how celestial line-of-sight illusions could possibly have any impact on humans. What’s the mechanism for that? There isn’t one. And, no, Mercury’s gravitational pull has zero effect on us.
For your everyday life, it’s not. It’s not. Astrology is all about giving meaning to line-of-sight observations. That’s a pretty odd thing to do. That astrology also gets the basic observations wrong seems even odder.
Why is one observation—Mercury in retrograde—considered important only because it is astronomically accurate, but the other—where the Sun actually is in the sky—is not? The Sun is “in” (moving in front of the stars in the constellation of) Libra, which it entered on October 31, 2019 and will leave on November 23 and cross into Scorpius. Astrologers are always hasty when it comes to star signs, oddly refusing to adjust for the reality of Earth’s slow precession that has rendered it utterly meaningless.
The planet Mercury is named after the Roman’s Messenger of the Gods. Astrology therefore equates the planet with messages and communications technology.
So, no, your gadgets are not going to malfunction, and there will be no communications problems because a planet appears to go backwards against a background of stars.
Mercury retrograde is observational proof for our understanding of how the solar system works, about the nature of reality. As usual in astronomy, the truth is always more mind-blowing than the fiction.

        Wishing you clear skies and wide eyes. 
      
