
# Giants may have to make 2 injury-related changes on O-line

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/7/giants-may-have-to-make-2-injury-related-changes-o/)

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) - The New York Giants are probably going to have a new center against the Jets and they also may be making a change at right tackle.
Coach Pat Shurmur said Thursday it’s likely Spencer Pulley is going to replace Jon Halapio at center for the braggin’ rights game Sunday at MetLife Stadium. The status of right tackle Mike Remmers also is in question after his missed his second straight workout with a back problem.
This would mark the first time this season the Giants (2-7) have had a different starting lineup on the line.
Nick Gates would have to make his first career start if Remmers can’t play.
Pulley started nine games at center last year after Halapio sustained a major leg injury early in the 2018 season.
Shurmur said Halapio is a ways away with a hamstring injury sustained Monday night in a 37-18 loss to Dallas.
“But the good news for us is, in my mind, I feel like we have two starting centers on our team,” Shurmur said.
Shurmur said Remmers can’t shake soreness from the Monday night game.
Wide receiver Sterling Shepard remained in the concussion protocol and will likely miss his fifth straight game, and sixth overall. Tight end Evan Engram (foot) also did not practice and his status is certainly in doubt..
One interesting tidbit for the game is Saquon Barkley’s father, Alibay, is a long-time fan of the Jets (1-7) and has a team tattoo.
Saquon Barkley is sure his father will root for the Giants, but he thinks his parent will wear green.
“That’s going to be an interesting one, but I gave it to him because it’s a Joe Namath jersey,” Saquon Barkley said. “I think I got him that jersey actually, the Joe Namath one. But at the end of the day, I knew this situation was going to come up one day, but I’m happy for him. I was a Jets fan growing up, too, so it’s fun. It’s going to be a little fun competition in the Barkley house.”
More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
