
# Love It Or Hate It, Daylight Saving Time Poses Risks

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Undercoffler**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/davidundercoffler/2019/11/01/daylight-saving-time-poses-risks/)

Crisp fall weather, weekends full of football, and fire sales on leftover Halloween candy can only mean one thing: daylight saving time is about to end. With the biannual time change comes a trunkful of disruptions to our commutes, sleeping patterns, safety, and productivity as we adjust to the shift in daylight hours. 
If you’re no fan of the changes and challenges daylight savings poses, you’re not alone. 
A recent survey of nearly 1,300 consumers we did at Autolist discovered that the time adjustment negatively impacts many people.
The survey found that 25 percent of people said daylight savings significantly disrupts their commute or daily routine. 
The drive into work can also be made more dangerous; 16 percent of consumers said they were more inclined to eat during their commute, raising the likelihood of distracted driving and potentially even crashes. 
Six percent of consumers told us they had been in a car accident that was caused by or exacerbated by the time shift. In addition to being more tired and or potentially more distracted, the change makes it more likely drivers in some parts of the country will encounter wildlife like deer or even moose (animals don’t adhere to daylight saving, unfortunately), since these collisions are more likely at dawn and dusk. 
Increased driving at dawn and dusk also leads to safety concerns for pedestrians and kids walking to and from work. More than a quarter of respondents to our survey (27 percent) said the time change made them feel less safe walking or working out outside; a full third of consumers (33 percent) said they believed the time change posed a risk to the safety of kids outside. 
Things aren’t any better once we get to work, where just under a third of respondents (30 percent) said they were less productive during the week immediately after the time change. 
If there’s any consolation to the ‘Fall Back’ time-shift — beyond that extra hour of precious sleep — it’s that things are worse during the ‘Spring Ahead’ start of daylight saving time. 
Multiple studies have found that the rate of car crashes jumps by seven to eight percent on the Monday immediately following the spring time change. 
And each spring on that same Monday immediately after daylight savings begins, the rate of heart attacks jumps by 25 percent. Correspondingly, the rate of heart attacks drops by 21 percent each fall the Monday after daylight savings ends.
So what’s a nation to do about this inconvenience? Many respondents to our survey thought the best idea might be to abolish the practice of time change altogether. Forty percent of respondents said the federal government should get rid of daylight saving time altogether; 37 percent said we should keep it, and 23 percent were unsure. 
Or you could move to Hawaii or Arizona. They’re the two states that don’t observe daylight saving time; the other 48 have done so since Congress passed the Uniform Time Act in 1966.
