
# How to nominate somebody for a Pride of Britain Award in 2020

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/how-nominate-somebody-pride-britain-20816147)

It's that magical time of year again to celebrate some of the country's greatest unsung heroes.
The Pride of Britain Awards see veteran presenter Carol Vorderman and a host of the country's greatest stars and royalty come together to honour some members of the British public who are in a real need of being celebrated.
The 2019 ceremony marks 20 years of honouring the best and brightest of British heroes - but they wouldn't have even been nominated for awards if someone didn't nominate them first.
But how do you nominate someone for a Pride of Britain Award?
Here's what you need to know.
Nominations for the Pride of Britain Awards 2020 opened on 7 October, and now you can nominate here.
You can nominate people, or groups of people, in the following Pride of Britain award categories:
TSB Community Partner Award For an individual or group of people who have worked together in partnership as a force for good in their local community, improving the lives of people around them. This could be anything from supporting young people to thrive to bringing communities together to create something special. The winner or winners will have galvanised the support of the people around them to make a difference.
ITV Fundraiser of the Year For tireless and inspirational charity fundraising, aged 16 and over.
Good Morning Britain Young Fundraiser of the Year To reward a young person aged 15 and under for inspirational charity work.
This Morning Emergency Services Award For police, fire, ambulance, paramedics or air, sea or mountain rescue who have gone beyond the call of duty.
Outstanding Bravery For adults who risk their own safety to help others in danger.
Child/Teenager of Courage For battling against the odds to help others, or putting themselves at risk to save someone in danger.
Lifetime Achievement To recognise far-reaching achievement, possibly on a national or international scale.
Special Recognition For achievements not covered in other categories, such as inspiring carers, campaigners and members of armed forces

        The 2019 Pride of Britain Awards were held on October 28, 2019.
      

        
          Will you be nominating someone for next year? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
