
# Government pushes ahead with plans for 'festival of Brexit'

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:01:21+00:00**

Author: **Ben Quinn**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/05/government-pushes-ahead-plans-festival-of-brexit)


        Figures from arts institutions fear 2022 event could alienate remain-supporting visitors
      
Boris Johnson’s government is pressing ahead with a controversial post-Brexit festival of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, inherited from Theresa May, but which the new prime minister had been urged to shelve.
Dean Creamer, a delivery director for the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, has been put in charge of planning for the £120m project – dubbed the “festival of Brexit” by critics – which is due to take place in 2022, the Guardian has learned.
However, figures from arts institutions have privately expressed concern about the project, which some say is likely to alienate remain-supporting visitors at museums and galleries that are expected to take part.
There had been previous warnings that the idea – announced by May in 2018 as an initiative that would “strengthen our precious union” – could inflame tensions in Northern Ireland, coming a year after the centenary of Irish partition and on the 100th anniversary of the start of the Irish civil war.
The festival was billed as a showcase for “the UK’s unique strengths in creativity and innovation” with echoes of the 1851 Great Exhibition and the 1951 festival of Britain.
A pledge was made to deliver “an exciting programme” of events on arts, culture, design and technology in the same year as the Queen’s platinum jubilee and to “amplify” key anniversary celebrations including the BBC’s 100th birthday and the 75th anniversary of the Edinburgh international and fringe festivals.
But one person in the museum sector – one of the stakeholders identified by government planners – said: “A lot of museums are quite wary of the whole thing. There’s also a sense that if it is a festival of Brexit then it turns into an ethical issue. Half of the audiences would be completely hostile to Brexit.”
In response to a freedom of information request by the Guardian, the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) said it had established a festival of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 2022 programme board, which met regularly. Members included representatives from the Treasury and Cabinet Office. A delivery body with a budget of £120m is being appointed.
Another senior figure in the culture sector said there had been talks with officials at the DCMS, but added: “Nothing has really flowed to the institutions who might be interested in it. There is infrastructure in place but everyone is waiting until the general election to see what happens next.”
They added that the person in charge of planning was Creamer, who has a track record of infrastructure projects.
The same source predicted: “The real challenge will be to get an artistic director. It really depends on how they seek to brand it. We expect that there would be a major effort to make it a consciously national and non-metropolitan endeavour.”
It is thought the idea of the festival will appeal to Johnson’s love of set-piece events such as the Olympic Games, which he was able to capitalise on during his time as mayor of London.
But the Lib Dem MP Layla Moran, the party’s spokesperson on DCMS matters, said: “I’m astounded that the government is going ahead with what is basically a Brexit festival despite everything that is going on. It is a complete waste of money at a time when funding cuts to our schools, hospitals and local services continue despite government announcements to the contrary.
“The Conservatives are trying to distract us with bread and circuses, but it won’t work.”
Lord Ashton of Hyde, who at the time was parliamentary under-secretary of state at the DCMS, told the House of Lords in March that the festival was an exciting opportunity to celebrate creativity and innovation across the UK, and the museum sector was expected to play an important role.
