
# 11 of Our Best Weekend Reads

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:20:12+00:00**

Author: **Kaly Soto**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/briefing/11-of-our-best-weekend-reads.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Welcome to the weekend. We are gearing up for the New York City Marathon and a time change on Sunday. In California, the wildfires are still burning. The Washington Nationals are World Series champs and we had a vote in the impeachment inquiry. If you were distracted by the ghosts and goblins of Halloween, here are some great articles you may have missed.
Russia, Turkey and Bashar al-Assad carved up northern Syria as the Americans retreated.
[Also read: “As Kurds Tracked ISIS Leader, U.S. Withdrawal Threw Raid Into Turmoil.”]
____
Dozens of evacuees from the Kincade fire have taken refuge in a shopping center in Rohnert Park, Calif.
[Also read “‘Devil Winds’ Drive Southern California Fires.”]
____
Even with the strongest labor market in half a century, getting work after losing a job can still be a challenge.
[Also read: “It Will Take More Than Lower Mortgage Rates for a Housing Rally” and “Jobs Report: U.S. Added 128,000 to Payrolls Despite G.M. Strike.”]
____
The famed restaurant, which once defined the New York steakhouse experience, has lost its way.
____
The Democratic presidential candidate would impose huge tax increases on businesses and billionaires to provide free health coverage for all Americans, but she says she would not raise taxes on the middle class.
____
The filmmaker didn’t so much adapt the Louisa May Alcott novel as excavate it. Think of it as a modern screenwriter in conversation with a proto-modern novelist.
____
The financier Michael Milken is a major investor in a property that became eligible for a federal tax break — after his longtime friend, Steven Mnuchin, intervened.
____
This summer, four photographers and four writers drove around the United States. Each pair was guided by a unique theme — patriotism, tradition, community, youth — and a unifying question: What does America look like now?
____
“It has been good for me getting out of the bubble and understanding how, for some people, the work that I’ve done is important,” the Radiohead frontman said.
____
New attention is being paid to the role of food and cooking in grieving for a lost partner.
[Also read: From Opinion, “Who Will Wear My Dead Husband’s Clothes?”]
____
So this 65-year-old sportswriter decided to train for a marathon. His knees wanted to call an Uber.

        Continue reading the main story
      
