
# Rare White Squirrel Caught On Camera In Incredible Photograph

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Rosemurgey**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/animals/rare-white-squirrel-caught-on-camera-in-incredible-photograph/)


        An incredibly rare white squirrel has been pictured in Royal Deeside, Scotland.
      
According to reports, experts believe the squirrel is actually of the red variety, rather than the grey, due to the hairy tufts that can be visibly seen on the creature’s ears.
The rare picture was taken by conservationists who are working in the area to protect the red squirrel population in the north east of Scotland.
They said they would now be working to discover whether the squirrel was a ‘true albino’ with red eyes.

        Conservationist Dr Gwen Maggs told the BBC:
      

        Alex Stuart, co-ordinator of the North East Scotland Biodiversity Partnership, added:
      
Meanwhile, a red squirrel was spotted in Aberdeen earlier in the year, which was said to be the first to have been seen so close to the city centre in decades.
The squirrel was spotted by Gina Ganzenmueller, who managed to snap a picture of the rare creature in her back garden, north of Duthie Park, near the River Dee.

        She told the BBC:
      
Grey squirrels were first introduced to Aberdeen back in the 1970s and they quickly spread through the city and into the surrounding areas.
Ever since, Aberdeenshire’s native red squirrel population has continued to decline due to competition for food and living space.

        Dr Gwen Maggs, Saving Scotland’s Red Squirrels Conservation Officer for North East Scotland, said:
      

        Emma Rosemurgey
      
Emma Rosemurgey is an NCTJ trained Journalist at UNILAD. She graduated from the University of Central Lancashire in Preston and started her career in regional newspapers before joining the LADbible Group team in 2017.
