
# Bloomberg Analyst Explains Why Bitcoin Price is “Caged” by $8,000 to $12,000 Range

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:00:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/07/bloomberg-analyst-explains-bitcoin-price-caged-8000-12000/)

Bitcoin’s surge from $7,300 to $10,600 woke up cryptocurrency bulls after a long slumber. And as normal, bulls have pushed extremely bullish price predictions, calling for BTC and its ilk to surge much higher by the end of the year.
In fact, as reported by NewsBTC previously, Changpeng “CZ” Zhao of Binance wrote on Twitter that he expects for the leading cryptocurrency to hit $16,000 “soonish,” citing the news that China has adopted blockchain technologies, which theoretically should have bullish knock-on effects on Bitcoin.
But according to a Bloomberg analyst, who covers the crypto markets in a once-a-month commentary, a $16,000 Bitcoin likely isn’t possible, at least in 2019 anyway. Here’s why.
Su Zhu, the chief executive of Three Arrows Capital, recently released an excerpt of a report from Bloomberg’s “monthly crypto market columnist.” And according to them, Bitcoin is looking a bit more bullish than bearish but remains stuck in a tight range.
The excerpt reads that “the worst of this year’s Bitcoin price correction… in our view.” The analyst elaborated that they expect for Bitcoin to remain bound to the $8,000 to $12,000 range until year-end; Bloomberg wrote that increasing institutional investment and a “favorable macroeconomic environment” should produce upside potential, but that “hangover selling from 2017’s price surge” should limit the upside, and potentially create some room for downside to the $8,000 region.
