
# Travelodge's latest sale has family rooms from £7.24pp for stays next year

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:37:46+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/uk-ireland/travelodges-latest-sale-family-rooms-20809809)

In a case of the early bird catching the worm, families could bag cheap UK breaks for 2020 in Travelodge's latest sale.
The budget hotel chain has slashed prices across its UK hotels, with 700,000 rooms currently going from £28.99 a night.
Based on a family of four sharing a family room, that works out at £7.24pp a night.
The best part is that the rooms are available across the chain's 570 UK hotels so there's ample opportunity to bag a bargain whether you're after a city break, countryside retreat or seaside escape.
You can already book the discounted rooms on the Travelodge website but once all 700,000 rooms are snapped up, that's it.
When we took a look we could find the cheapest rooms for travel dates in January and February although some were during the week - however, we did find rooms from £31.99 during the February half term dates at Lake District hotels.
 
Don't be disheartened if you can't quite make the deal work for you - we've rounded more of the best Travelodge deals and discounts in a guide including top tips on how to nab the cheapest rooms no matter what time of the year you're booking.
If you have bagged a discounted room, the good news is that there are ways to save those extra pennies during your stay.
 
For example, if you've booked into a Travelodge hotel with an on-site Bar Café, there are some tempting meal deals.
For example, you can choose from an Unlimited Breakfast menu at £8.25pp or an unlimited lighter breakfast option at £5.95pp - and for each paying adult, two children eat for free.
You can also find dinner deals from £12.25 which includes a main plus a starter, side or dessert. (Prices can vary depending on the hotel where you are staying).
Tempted by the sale but not sure where you'd want to go first?
We've put together a guide to the UK's best family-friendly destinations worth being on your radar.
You can also find plenty more inspiration on our UK Holidays page which we regularly update with destinations you'll want to explore and any sales/deals we find that we think you'll love.
