
# 8 Things Parents Rarely Do for Their Babies’ Health That Doctors Swear By

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [BrightSide — Inspiration. Creativity. Wonder.](https://brightside.me/inspiration-family-and-kids/8-things-parents-rarely-do-for-their-babies-health-that-doctors-swear-by-794667/)

Giving a massage to premature babies has proven to have miraculous effects, helping the babies leave the hospital sooner than expected. Studies have shown that premature babies who received daily massage therapy developed more quickly, their immune system ameliorated, and their overall health improved. But that’s just one of the “adult” practices that are also useful for infants.
At Bright Side, we selected a number of things that parents will find remarkably beneficial to support their babies’ growth and health system.
It’s almost an instinctive action for some mothers to rub their children’s hands or feet when they’re uneasy. What’s not so commonly known though is that babies also respond to reflexology. A gentle massage on their feet can help them relax and fall asleep more easily and can be used as a daily routine.
How to do it:
As a parent, you likely want to caress your kid instinctively. But it’s also been scientifically proven that children who were touched and nurtured more by their parents as babies have better mental health as adults because they develop stronger neuronal connections. “Having a hippocampus that’s almost 10% larger just provides concrete evidence of nurturing’s powerful effect,” writes Joan L. Luby, MD, Professor of Child Psychiatry.
Massage is a very popular form of stress relief for adults, but it has the same effect on infants too. Massaging your baby makes them feel secure and tender, and also helps babies who experience gas, cramps, colic, and constipation. It also lowers their stress levels. More than that, research has shown that giving a daily massage to premature babies helped their growth and bone development.
How to do it:
Tummy time is not just a fun parent-baby moment. It should be a regular practice because it actually helps the baby build stronger muscles. This way, crawling and sitting will be much easier for the infant as they get older.
How do it:
Vibrations are proven to be one of the best ways to soothe your crying baby. White noise devices have the exact same effect, plus they help babies fall asleep and sleep longer. Dryers or washing machines have become saviors for desperate new parents. The static sounds, experts say, are similar to the body noises that a baby listens to in the womb.
How to do it:
Driving your baby to sleep actually works and experts say that we should try it more. Car motion works as a lullaby for babies because it mimics the motion babies feel inside the womb. This makes them feel secure and peaceful like they did in their mother’s belly. Tracy Cassels, a developmental psychologist, said that “[The engine of the car] is white noise that babies also are used to. This is a muffled kind of sound in the womb.”
Especially during the summer months, mosquitos and bugs can be tough on our little ones (and for us too). A natural paste of baking soda and water relieves them from the pain and itching. The alkaline soda neutralizes and eases the acidic swelling.
How to do it:
This is more of a “no-no” but it’s a piece of important advice coming from Harvard’s experts. Most parents tend to respond to every cry with a feeding. That is a serious issue, doctors say, that can lead to an overweight baby. A baby’s cry doesn’t necessarily mean hunger but also fatigue, boredom, or discomfort. “If every time a baby fusses they are fed, after a while they may start to think of feeding as what they need...creating unhealthy associations with eating that are hard to undo,” a Harvard MD says.
What to try instead:
Do you have any special tips to share that will help new parents with their babies? Feel free to add them in the comments below.
Preview photo credit depositphotos.com, depositphotos.com
