
# Shah Rukh Khan thanks fans and well-wishers for “the most memorable birthday”

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:48:34+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/shah-rukh-khan-thanks-fans-and-well-wishers-for-the-most-memorable-birthday/articleshow/71894288.cms)

Bollywood Badshah, Shah Rukh Khan rang in his 54th birthday with his family and fans, who arrived from different parts of the country to be a part of the celebrations.
After spending the weekend, revelling in the love that came his way, the King of hearts took to his Instagram handle to send out a note of thanks to all his well-wishers. “And a very heartfelt Thank u to everyone who is reading this. Every year I feel that this is the most memorable birthday celebrations & every next year all your love makes it bigger & more memorable. I must be the only person in the world who feels happy getting older! Love u all,” read SRK’s note that he shared with a monochrome photo of himself with his birthday cake.
For the grand celebrations, SRK rang in his birthday with his family and made it a point to greet his fans at midnight. He made his second appearance of the day with son, AbRam Khan, much to the delight of all his fans. Later the same evening, he even attended a special event where he got candid with fans and spoke his heart about topics ranging from love, films, kids and about leaving behind a legacy.
On his birthday, Shah Rukh confirmed that he will have a film release in 2020, and also said that fans can expect an announcement soon when the film goes on floors in the coming months.
