
# 12 Best Facial Hair Removal Products That Truly Work

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:18:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/beauty/g29687228/facial-hair-removal-for-women/)

PSA: Facial hair is way common and completely natural—so if you don’t want to do anything about it, guess what? You don’t have to! But if you’re like me and are currently in pursuit of looking like a completely hairless cat (or, uh, a Kardashian), you’ve come to the right place. I’ve literally tested almost every single form of facial hair removal out there, and I’ve found that some of the best options are at-home products. Not only are they way more affordable in the long run, but most of ’em are also less time consuming than heading to a pro. So, if you’re down to get rid of all your facial hair, keep reading to peep the best creams, tools, and devices of all time.
amazon.com $16.92 SHOP NOW
If you have thick, coarse facial hair (hi, me), it can be way hard to find something that actually takes it all off. Welp, your search is officially over, thanks to this gentle facial-hair-removal cream. In addition to getting rid of the thickest of thick-ass hair, it also leaves your skin soft and smooth (never irritated or stinging), thanks to the aloe vera in the formula. 
amazon.com $26.95 SHOP NOW
Epilators are basically like really, really fast tweezers. This one from Venus has 10 teeny-tiny openings that spin and pluck your hair at a rapid speed. It’s perfect if you, you know, don’t want to spend hours in front of the mirror with an actual tweezer.
amazon.com $19.36 SHOP NOW
This is definitely not your mom’s facial trimmer—I mean, I love you mom, but look how sleek it is! It has a pivoting head that fits all of the nooks and crannies of your skin, and it gently removes your facial hair. It also comes with comb attachments (like the perfect eyebrow trimmers), just in case you want a quick touch-up. 
sephora.com $189.00 SHOP NOW
Okay, so this kit is definitely a pricier option, but trust: It really works. Dermaplaning will exfoliate your skin and shave your face—as it removes your dead skin cells, it also picks up baby-fine hairs. Even though you can get it done at your derm’s office, this tool lets you dermaplane in the comfort of your home (or, like, bathroom). The result? Glowy, smooth skin that’s hair-free.
ulta.com $12.00 SHOP NOW
Not only are these facial-hair-removal wax strips a total breeze to use, but they also genuinely get the job done. All you have to do is warm up the strips in your hands, gently smooth them over your skin, and then rip ’em off. BTW, it also comes with a post-wax aloe cream to soothe any inflammation. Done and done.
amazon.com $449.00 SHOP NOW
Yes, this is expensive, but listen—it still costs wayyyy less then getting laser treatments with a professional. This facial-hair remover is the first FDA-cleared at-home laser to remove hair (major, right?) with the same technology dermatologists use. Translation: This is the perfect option if you’re trying to zap away unwanted hair for good.
sephora.com $14.00 SHOP NOW
If you’re trying to get rid of a sh*t ton of hair, a tweezer might not be for you. But if you just want to get rid of a couple hairs, go ahead and grab this tweezer. It’s super precise, sharp, and will pluck the smallest of facial hairs.
amazon.com $8.89 SHOP NOW
Nair is the OG of facial-hair removers—and with good reason. This formula is spiked with sweet almond oil, which works to keep your face moisturized long after you wipe away the cream.  
ulta.com $24.00 SHOP NOW
This facial-hair remover makes waxing at home so easy. It comes with blue-colored wax, so you know where TF you’re putting it on your face, and the formula is filled with chamomile oil, which leaves your skin crazy soft. Smooth it on your face, wait for it to harden, rip it off, and then dab on the post-wax oil to soothe your skin.
ulta.com $19.99 SHOP NOW
Not down to rock a ’stache? Try out this facial-hair remover. The packaging is way cute (it’s designed to look like a lipstick), and it’s an epilator that gets rid of your hair without leaving your skin the slightest bit irritated.
amazon.com $6.99 $4.99 (29% off) SHOP NOW
This super-cheap option is perfect for those times when you just want to get rid of some extra hairs or shape up your eyebrows. You can also use it as a dermaplaning tool to help exfoliate your skin and get rid of any peach fuzz.
amazon.com $14.07 SHOP NOW
This organic facial-hair remover is so natural, it legit only has five ingredients. Seriously: sugar, water, lemon juice, chamomile, and tea tree oil. That’s it. And yes, it actually works. It also comes with everything you’d ever need to make the waxing process simple, including reusable fabric strips (a win for the environment) and wooden applicators. 
Ama Kwarteng Ama Kwarteng is the Beauty Assistant at Cosmopolitan, covering all things hair, skin, makeup, for both print and digital.
