
# Best Buy Black Friday 2019 Sales: New Ad Reveals Huge Xbox One Deals

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erik Kain**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2019/11/07/best-buy-black-friday-2019-sales-new-ad-reveals-huge-xbox-one-deals/)

It’s that time of year again: Black Friday, the day–no, the weekend!–when shoppers line up on Thanksgiving or the early hours of the morning on Friday for big savings. Meanwhile, retailers try to get rid of as much inventory as possible to make way for next year’s junk.Best Buy’s ad has landed online and it includes tons of deals on all things video game related. These include deals for Nintendo Switch, PS4, PC and Xbox One.
Xbox One has the most console deals, but fewer games on sale (at least in the ad–that might not be the case when you’re in-store). There are some pretty great deals, including a bundle deal with the brand new Star Wars: Jedi Fallen Order from Respawn Games (Apex Legends).
That’s actually one of my most-anticipated games of 2019, especially since it appears to blend Jedi powers and fighting with Dark Souls-style combat. It’s also the first Star Wars single-player game in ages. EA just keeps cancelling them!
In any case, here are all the Best Buy Black Friday 2019 Xbox One deals. See if something tickles your fancy.
And that’s all folks! Good luck out there in the Black Friday shopping chaos. Stay safe and be kind to your fellow shoppers and the hard-working retail workers who are working on Thanksgiving or getting up super early on Black Friday to deal with long lines and often impatient shoppers.
