
# EastEnders teases Christmas birth drama for Louise and Sharon as Keanu drops baby news

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:47:28+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/eastenders-teases-christmas-birth-drama-20820140)

EastEnders has hinted at Christmas birth drama for both Louise Mitchell and her stepmother Sharon Mitchell, ahead of the Sheanu baby twist revealed.
The Mitchells will be torn apart on Christmas Day when Sharon's fling with Keanu Taylor, the fiancé of stepdaughter Louise, is exposed.
Keanu is the father of Sharon's unborn baby, while he is also expecting a baby with Louise.
Now, amid the chaos and hints of a "bloodbath" headed for the family, Keanu revealed how long Louise had left until her due date.
Discussing her pregnancy, Keanu appeared to hint a Christmas birth was likely - with Sharon also due around the same time as Louise.
 
Mel Owen was winding Keanu up as she continued to spoil Louise on her birthday.
Keanu felt Mel was smothering his fiancée, and knowing that she knew about his affair left him unnerved.
As Mel seemed determined to plan a surprise 18th birthday party for her Goddaughter, Keanu wasn't keen.
He told her that with Louise being seven months pregnant she probably wasn't up for a huge event.
With her being this far gone in her pregnancy, it means she has around a month and a half left until her due date.
This happens to be the same amount of time roughly until Christmas, or at least the Christmas period.
Viewers believed this was the confirmation they needed, with one fan saying: "They’ve basically just confirmed Louise will give birth at Christmas/ when all the affair stuff comes out."
 
Louise or even Sharon could give birth early, or might even be late with their exact due dates yet to be confirmed - while they are close together.
But could this comment from Keanu suggest, given the dates, that the babies are set to be born around Christmas Day or even on the day?
It comes amid confirmation that the Mitchells will take centre stage in the big Christmas episode, as Keanu's affair and baby secret is exposed.
While it's possible that the potential of two births could be too much chaos to feature in the same episode as rumoured stunts, showdowns and an affair reveal - not to mention fears Keanu will be killed off in a shooting - it is soap land after all.

        EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One.
      
