
# Midlands towns invited to apply for share of £3.6bn for jobs, training and transport

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:37:31+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Walker, https://www.facebook.com/JonWalkerPolitics?pnref=story**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/midlands-towns-invited-apply-share-17183866)

The Government has invited towns across the Midlands and the North to apply for a share of £3.6bn in funding, in what it describes as a plan to “rebalance the national economy and level up our regions”.
But it admitted that towns had been neglected in the past - as successive governments concentrated on pouring investment into big cities.
A total of 101 towns have been invited to apply for a share of the cash. They include Bloxwich in the Black Country; Burton-upon-Trent in Staffordshire; Dudley; Hereford; Kidsgrove in Staffordshire; Newcastle-under-Lyme in Staffordshire; Nuneaton in Warwickshire; Redditch in Worcestershire; Rowley Regis in the Black Country; Smethwick in the Black Country; Telford in Shropshire; Walsall; West Bromwich; Wolverhampton and Worcester.
Robert Jenrick, the Local Government Secretary, said: “We know that a bright and prosperous future lies ahead for the whole of the United Kingdom. However, for too long, the benefits of this unprecedented growth in many of our world-renowned cities has not been felt as strongly by communities in our towns and rural areas.”
And a report published by the Government to launch the scheme said: “Successive Governments have often focused on cities as engines of economic growth.”
Councils will first need to bid for a share of the money by drawing up plans explaining how they would spend it, and have today been allocated up to £173,000 for each town to help them do this.
The Government’s report sets out some examples of projects that money could be spent on. They include
The report warns: “While some towns have prospered through their links to growing cities, generally residential towns – including commuter towns – have seen declining populations. For those still living in shrinking towns, social mobility often falters, even when compared to the most deprived communities in cities.
“Where this is accompanied by declining quality of employment opportunities that can be accessed in towns, it can lead to feelings of being ‘left-behind’. In addition, the decline in retail offer and business closures often leaves a very visible mark on town centres and the wider built environment.”
 
Mr Jenrick said: “This government is committed to levelling up all parts of the country. We created the £3.6bn Towns Fund to help businesses grow, connect communities and give people the skills they need to succeed.
“But no place is exactly the same. That is why we want to help local people to decide how this investment of up to £25 million in each town can be used to help create new businesses, new jobs and new homes for generations to come.”
