
# Malaysia Airlines launches Fly Malaysia campaign to support Visit Malaysia 2020

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:08:02+00:00**

Author: **Wong Swee May**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/malaysia-airlines-launches-fly-malaysia-campaign-support-visit-malaysia-2020)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 5): Malaysia Airlines Bhd launched its Fly Malaysia campaign at the World Travel Market in London yesterday, which will run until the end of December 2020, funding a range of activities to promote Malaysia in key overseas markets and boost domestic and international arrivals.
In a statement today, Malaysia Airlines said this campaign will heavily support Tourism Malaysia's Visit Malaysia 2020 initiative, which is uniting industry players behind a shared goal of welcoming 30 million tourists to Malaysia in 2020 to enjoy the country's warm hospitality and cultural attractions.
Among others, the campaign will be promoted with a range of "Home of Hospitality" videos which will see well-known social media influencers discuss what they love most about Malaysia. The national carrier said these will run concurrently to numerous social media initiatives, pushing the Fly Malaysia message out to a wider audience.
Malaysia Airlines chief executive officer Izham Ismail said the airline has been flying passengers around the world for over 70 years, and looks forward to welcoming many more aboard in 2020 and beyond to experience Malaysia with this campaign.
Meanwhile, Malaysia Airlines also announced an expanded partnership deal with Tourism Malaysia for 2020 along with state cooperation deals with the Sarawak Tourism Board.
Malaysia Airlines also became the Global Airline Partner for the Malaysian Healthcare Travel Council and the SuperGT racing series, making it set to welcome record numbers of visitors to experience Malaysia in 2020.
In addition, there will be extensive campaigns promoting the Malaysian experience in target markets around the world through travel partner cooperation, consumer activations, more press visits and the launch of MH Holidays.
Malaysia Airlines said a brand promise of Malaysian hospitality sits at the heart of all that the airline does, with passengers experiencing this wherever they are flying, serving as a constant reminder of all that Malaysia has to offer.
The World Travel Market is a three-day conference held in London bringing together travel professionals, key industry buyers, journalists, digital influencers, students and tourism ministers to discuss business, innovations and trends in the travel industry.
