
# New AirPods Pro deal returns to $235, 15-inch MacBook Pro nearly $300 off, more

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:59:13+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/06/airpods-pro-deal/)

We have a notable AirPods Pro deal this morning, alongside nearly $300 off Apple’s 15-inch MacBook Pro, and discounts on official iPad cases. Hit the jump for all that and more in the latest 9to5Toys Lunch Break.
A new Apple AirPods Pro deal has surfaced this morning, returning prices to $235 at Costco. That’s down from the usual $249 going rate at Amazon and a match of the best offer we’ve seen. With various other retailers experiencing delayed shipping, this is a great time to pick up Apple’s new flagship earbuds at a discount. AirPods Pro delivers a refreshed take of the popular original version, now featuring active noise cancellation, tapered silicone tips, and a water-resistant design. Apple’s H1 chip ensures you have fast connectivity and up to 24 hours of battery life. Save roughly $90 and go with Apple’s second-generation AirPods.
Amazon offers Apple’s 2019 15-inch MacBook Pro with 512 GB of storage for $2,500. Today’s deal is $299 off the regular going rate and the second-best offer we’ve tracked at Amazon. This model offers a 9th generation 8-core Intel i9 processor, Retina display, Touch Bar, and four Thunderbolt 3 ports. Not only will you be getting the latest tech from Apple, but also a mobile powerhouse capable of handling a wide-range of tasks. You can learn more in our hands-on review of Apple’s 2019 MacBook Pro lineup.
Amazon offers Apple’s official 9.7-inch iPad Smart Cover in various colors from $24. As a comparison, it regularly sells for $39, with today’s deal being a match of the best we’ve tracked. Apple’s official iPad Smart Covers delivers a “single piece of durable polyurethane to protect the front of your device.” This model offers a foldable cover, which can help prop up your device and also protect it from bumps and bruises along the way.
BuyDig via Rakuten is offering the Yale Assure HomeKit Smart Lock (IM1) for $152. That’s $84 off the going rate found at retailers like Amazon and is within $20 of the lowest price we have tracked. This HomeKit smart lock can be armed/disarmed using Siri, the Apple Home app, a PIN code, and more. Additionally, it even works with Z-Wave smart home hubs, allowing you to set up custom automations with systems like SmartThings.
Best Buy’s official eBay storefront offers the Pioneer 6.2-inch CarPlay Receiver (AVIC-5201NEX) for $480. Also available directly from Best Buy. Usually selling for $650, like you’ll find at Amazon right now, today’s offer is the best we’ve tracked in months, comes within $30 of the previous price drop, and is the lowest currently available. Featuring an over six-inch touchscreen display, Pioneer’s CarPlay receiver is a must-have upgrade to your ride. It notably makes keeping an eye on directions, music playback, and more a breeze while commuting. I’ve been enjoying CarPlay for just over a year now and can wholeheartedly recommend for anyone in search of a no-fuss experience.
