
# ‘Negros 57’ Reds, not bus drivers—Military

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:46:08+00:00**

Author: **Paul M. Gutierrez**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/negros-57-reds-not-bus-drivers-military)


        Army lambasts KMU.
      
MILITARY officials based in Negros Island disputed the claim of the left-leaning labor group, ‘Kilusang Mayo Uno’ (KMU) that majority of those arrested by government forces last week were employees of a bus company and not members of the communist underground movement.
In a statement sent to this paper, Ltc. Emelito Thaddeus Logan, chief of the 79th Infantry Battalion, 3rd Infantry Division, Philippine Army, said that “most, if not all” of the 57 people nabbed by a joint team of the AFP and the Philippine National Police (PNP) in the cities of Bacolod and Escalante last October 31 are members of the New People’s Army (NPA), the armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP).
Assorted firearms and explosives were recovered by government forces at the offices of the KMU, Bayan, Anakpawis, Gabriela and the National Federation of Sugar Workers (NFSW) after the raids, the military said.
Of those arrested, 15 were found to be minors allegedly being trained as “child warriors” and have been turned over to the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) for custody.
On the other hand, Logan also bared that contrary to the statements made by the KMU, 21 of those arrested are no longer connected in any way to the CERES Bus Company.
“They are no longer CERES workers.  They went on AWOL (absent without official leave).
“They had already been laid off.  For whatever reason, it was confirmed by the CERES Bus Company that they (suspects) no longer work for them,” Logan averred.
“This is the problem when KMU infiltrates unions.  They agitate workers and make demands, but the issues they choose are not really meant to be resolved,” he added.
Logan also chided the militant labor federation, saying the KMU should not be called “progressive,” but rather, “regressive.”
“There is not a single union in the country that has improved the situation of the workers once the KMU infiltrated it,” Logan said.
“It is quite the opposite.  Most businesses with such unions closed down, leaving all those workers with no jobs.  Only the CPP-NPA-NDF has benefited – these former workers took up arms and joined their ranks.”
“Unions that promote arms and violence have never caused anything but trouble.
“There are many fair and just unions that promote worker rights without undermining the government or resorting to ugly threats.
“There are many good unions that do not lead their workers to unemployment, or cause businesses to fail,” the official concluded.
