
# Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain could take key role as Liverpool ponder different tune

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:47:58+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/alex-oxlade-chamberlain-could-take-20815191)

"The problem with my life is that I've said too much s**t in the past and no-one forgets it."
Jurgen Klopp's words ahead of his first European away game with Liverpool at Rubin Kazan exactly four years ago haven't stemmed anyone's appetite for pouncing on each and every word coming from the German's mouth.
Back then he was responding to a question about his infamous "heavy metal football" quote that, four years on, doesn't really apply to his team any more.
These days Liverpool are, to pick up the words of Aston Villa's John McGinn , more of a "relentless" tune that often hits the same notes again and again and again like a form of mental torture. You can't get away from it. A bit like that U2 album that appeared on every iPhone.
Is there a key change on the horizon though?
After all the 'mentality monsters' have started to look a little different in recent weeks, with the midfield control that so typified last season's Champions League win and this season's early weeks starting to be sacrificed for more urgency and a faster beat, albeit often not from the start of games.
And the frontman for this change has been Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain.
The Englishman has totalled 226 minutes on the pitch across his last four Liverpool appearances, during which time the Reds have scored nine goals.
He managed three of them, while also helping to force the issue as his side have often been chasing games.
He was excellent during his 32 minutes on the pitch at Aston Villa, never wasting a pass and firing in four shots, which is as many as he's ever attempted in a Liverpool shirt including in his 90 minute appearances.
There was also the cracking strike in the madcap Carabao Cup game against Arsenal as well as the headline act in his Champions League brace at Genk.
In Belgium he again barely wasted a pass, while crucially winning the ball back four times in the opposition half as Liverpool drove forward.
He will surely be in the starting XI again as Genk come to Anfield on Tuesday night, when a good performance could see him force his way into an unlikely start against Manchester City at the weekend.
Oxlade-Chamberlain has an excellent record against City, scoring in the 4-3 Premier League win and 3-0 Champions League success in 2017/18, while also setting the tone in the second leg of that European tie just as City threatened a comeback.
His driving runs through the centre of the pitch have often exposed Guardiola's men, and while the weekend's game might have come a little too soon for him to start, the weeks following the international break and in the lead up to Christmas offer him ample opportunities to play.
If Klopp's insistence that Liverpool would wait for Oxlade-Chamberlain "like a wife waiting for her man to be released from prison" after his devastating injury against Roma 19 months ago is now starting to come true, so too is the fact that his team often play differently now.
That has taken them to Champions League glory and quite remarkably consistent levels in the Premier League.
But as they seek to put the hammer down in both competitions an increase in midfield urgency and creativity looks key.
Oxlade-Chamberlain can provide both, and get his team playing to a remastered tune.
