
# Xiaomi announces 108-megapixel Mi Note 10 for outside China

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sam Byford**

Original: [The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2019/11/6/20951100/xiaomi-mi-note-10-europe-india-release-cc9-pro-108-mp)

Yesterday Xiaomi unveiled the CC9 Pro, the first phone to use the 108-megapixel image sensor the company co-developed with Samsung. The CC9 Pro won’t be sold outside of China, but today Xiaomi is announcing that a near-identical phone called the Mi Note 10 will.
The Mi Note 10 is being revealed in Spain today and will likely make it to the UK, other European countries, and India. There doesn’t appear to be any difference in the hardware, but as you’d expect the Note 10 will run MIUI atop Google-approved Android, with the CC9 Pro using Xiaomi’s own apps and services in China.
Xiaomi often gives its products different names and release schedules around the world — just look at the saga of the excellent but confusing Mi 9T/Redmi K20/Redmi K20 Pro/Mi 9T Pro lineup. This time the two phones are at least being announced within a day of each other.
Here are the key specs, as a reminder:
The Mi Note 10 won’t be quite as fast as flagships running a Snapdragon 855 — the Redmi K20 Pro included — but otherwise it sounds like a pretty compelling phone, and we’re certainly looking forward to checking out the camera. While the CC9 Pro starts at around $400 in China, the Mi Note 10 will be priced at 549 euros. It’s not clear exactly when and where the Mi Note 10 will be available, though.
