
# More than 14500 villages have electricity access

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/more-than-14500-villages-have-electricity-access)

 
Myanmar is implementing the national electricity plan taking a loan of 400 million US dollars from the World Bank. A total of 14,570 out of 63,264 villages have access to electricity, according to the Ministry of Electricity and Energy.
Under the National Electricity Plan (NEP), Myanmar has set a goal of electrifying the whole country by 2030.  The “Sustainable Energy for all (SE4ALL)” initiative, launched in 2010 by the UN Secretary General, established three global objectives to be accomplished by 2030: to ensure universal access to modern energy services, to double the global rate of improvement in global energy efficiency, and to double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix.
Till September, construction works have completed in 738 out of 5,080 villages included in the first phase of the NEP and 285 villages have access to electricity.
The ministry has received 93 per cent of materials to be installed in 5,080 villages.
Till August, 464 townships and 34,360 villages have access to electricity. More than 5.81 million out of 10.877 million households have no access to electricity, according to the Ministry of Electricity and Energy.
Till August, 46.58 per cent of households have electricity access.
According to the ministry, 60.16 per cent of households in Kachin have electricity access, 94.75 per cent in Kayah, 32.69 per cent in Kayin, 26.55 per cent in Chin, 41.76 per cent in Sagaing, 18.57 per cent in Taninthayi, 45.83 per cent in Bago (East), 39.02 per cent in Bago (West), 32.37 per cent in Magway, 55.34 per cent in Mon, 25.17 per cent in Rakhine, 45.76 per cent in Shan (South), 33.57 per cent in Shan (North), 13.41 per cent in Shan (East), 19.01 per cent in Ayeyawady, 58.08 per cent in Nay Pyi Taw, 87.76 per cent in Yangon and 63.52 per cent in Mandalay.
 
 
 
