
# 4 Things To Consider When Hunting For Income

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Sarhan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamsarhan/2019/11/04/3-things-to-consider-when-hunting-for-income/)


        Total Return:
      
Many people search for income, but they fail to meet their investment goals. One common problem is that people who obsess over income tend to ignore the reality of total return, and in many respects, that is more important than income alone. Even if they enjoy a high coupon, they could still end up losing money if the value of their principal declines even more than the income they receive.

        Lockups:
      
Another common mistake people can make in chasing yield is to lock up their money for long periods of time. In many cases, they make an unnecessary sacrifice of having access to their investment when they could have found similar income with more liquid investments. “Remember, all income is not created equal,” states Stuart P. Quint III, CFA of Ambassador Wealth Management, LLC in Vancouver, WA. He suggests investors focus on additional issues in their search for profitable sources of investment income, than just yield.

        Taxes:
      
Taxes are another big piece of the puzzle that should be factored into the equation. At the end of the day, we all have to pay our taxes. A common omission is when people do not factor in how much they will pay in taxes on their investments. Often times, people purchase an investment expecting to make a high income. Instead, they end up making a lot less because they failed to account for taxes. How an investment affects your tax bracket, what type of income, and in what sort of account you house an income-producing investment are critical considerations.

        Inflation:
      
The next factor to consider is inflation and how that will impact your income in the future. Prices on goods and services you purchase rise over time. The value of today’s dollar is not the same as the value of tomorrow’s dollar. For example, if you are spending $5,000/month today you should plan to spend more when you retire, just because of inflation. If your investment income is not rising at or above the rate of inflation, you might end up facing a squeeze on your standard of living. 

        Risks of Failing to Pay the Income Promised:
      
It is tempting to focus on a large coupon or yield an investment promises to pay. However, not all investments deliver on their promises (often in spite of “best intentions”). Risks specific to the investment (operational, interest rate, credit) and stemming from macro environment (recession, negative impact of technology, competition) can result in a reduction to the income promised by an investment. 

        Bottom Line:
      
All income is not created equal and it behooves you to do your homework to make sure you adjust for the factors mentioned above to help you achieve your long-term objectives.
