
# Emmerdale's Mandy confirms Vinny is not her son - and he's definitely not a Dingle

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:27:51+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/emmerdales-mandy-confirms-vinny-not-20827267)

Emmerdale confirmed more about Vinny Dingle's true identity during Wednesdays' episode of the ITV soap.
Recent scenes saw the newcomer claim he wasn't the real son of Mandy Dingle, with fans heavily suspecting he was still related to the Dingles or someone else in the village in some way.
Viewers were quick to predict he was Paddy Kirk's son with former resident Emily Kirk, while Bear was also tipped to be revealed as his father.
Now, the latest scenes on the ITV soap saw Mandy finally back Vinny's claims and confirm he was not her biological child.
Despite their close bond, Vinny is not her son and it also appeared to be ruled out that he was a Dingle despite theories.
As they tried to help Lydia Hart find out the identity of her benefactor, who had given her a load of money anonymously, Vinny made a confession.
Mandy made a hint about Vinny not being around is family, after Lydia's own hopes to learn where she really came from.
She explained: "All that stuff she was saying, about her roots, it made me think of you."
Mandy then took Vinny's hand as they looked fondly at each other, before he replied: "At least I knew my family."
While his mystery family were not identified, it appeared to confirm he wasn't tied to anyone in the village given he knew his family already.
Mandy went on: "Do you think about them much?" hinting he might have left them, or something may have happened to them leading to their separation.
He responded: "Now and again, but not much. I'm glad they're not in my life anymore.
"But I found a new, improved family and I couldn't be happier."
It's not known how Mandy and Vinny met or are linked, or whether his real family will make an appearance at some point - but his back story surely has to be explored.
Mandy concluded: "We might not be blood, but we're cut from the same cloth you and me."

        Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7pm on ITV, with an extra episode at 8pm on Thursdays.
      
