
# Piers Morgan cleared by Ofcom over 950 complaints - but Susanna Reid in trouble

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:06:01+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/piers-morgan-cleared-ofcom-over-20813491)

Piers Morgan has been celebrating being cleared by Ofcom after receiving 950 complaints from Good Morning Britain viewers.
The outspoken GMB host admitted he was "personally quite pleased" with having one of the highest number of complaints to any TV show in the country this year.
He sparked nearly 1,000 complaints to Ofcom for 'transgender discrimination/offences' by claiming he identified as a 'penguin' and disputing the existence of more than 100 genders.
Piers wore the accolade like a "badge of honour", but co-host Susanna Reid admitted being complained about made her "cringe".
A halo then appeared above Susanna's head, which was ironic as she was the only person actually singled out for complaint in Ofcom's ruling.
Piers said: "Very good ruling I have to say. 1,000 people complained and they all want me fired.
"The only person singled out for complaint is actually not me...it's Susanna."
Furious Susanna cried: "He gets exonerated - I get criticised!"
Piers revealed he was completely cleared for having "very strongly held views" on gender identity and has a right to express those views.
The Ofcom ruling also stated that the GMB audience has "clear expectations around his provocative position on the issue".
Seething Susanna replied: "Basically you asked for him, you've got him."
Ofcom stated that Piers "came close to ridicule with a potential to offend some viewers" by identifying himself as a penguin.
But they were displeased about the "lack of challenge" from his co-presenter Susanna, which got her in trouble.
Giggling Piers said: "So the real villain of the piece. I'm in the clear, old halo girl, she gets knifed. Unlucky there Susanna."
Susanna jokingly blasted Ofcom for "throwing me under the bus" - as Piers joked it wouldn't look good on her CV.
Giving more of Ofcom's ruling, she added: "We also consider the programme covered a number of discussions on gender issues and Susanna Reid did point out people had the right to choose how they identify which provided further context."
Good Morning Britain viewers took to Twitter to back Piers and the Ofcom decision.
One fan said: "100% agree with Ofcom and @piersmorgan . Everyone is entitled to their opinions and of you don’t like it or don’t agree with those opinions then so be it. That’s life.
"This is one of the only people on tv now with good old common sence. top bloke. keep up the good work," added another.
A third said: "100% agree! We all have opinions. Get the hell over it! I love Piers"
"I absolutely agree with decision. Piers is a beacon of common sense in an increasingly crazy world," agreed a fourth.

        *Good Morning Britain airs weekdays on ITV at 6am
      
