
# You might not be allowed to share your Netflix password soon

Published at: **2019-11-05T06:37:31+00:00**

Author: **Tech Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2093292/8-might-not-allowed-share-netflix-password-soon/)

Netflix has become a household name, offering the option to set several profiles so you and your family can stream shows of your own choice simultaneously without any inconvenience.
However, the company faces a set back with many people sharing their login details allowing different households to use the same account.
Netflix is working on tackling this issue, speaking at Netflix’s Q3 2019, Greg peter, the company’s product chief announced that the company is working towards solving the password sharing dilemma.
He did not mention the record of how people share passwords however, he did add that Netflix has 6.77 million paid subscribers during the quarter.
“Alienating a certain portion of [the] user base,” said Peters.
We do not know how the company will be stopping the users from sharing passwords however; it could be by limiting the number of IP addresses using each login.
“We’ll continue to look at the situation and we’ll see those consumer-friendly ways to push on the edge of that,” stated Peter.
“But we’ve got no big plans at this point in time in terms of doing something different there.”
Subscribers of the service are able to set up to five user profiles under one account, each user having a separate profile that allows you to select shows of their own choice and resume watching them whenever you wish.
The streaming service also provides customised recommendations to each user based on the shows they watch.
At present, there is no way to stop more than one IP address logging in and using another’s profile from a television or computer.

        This article was originally published on The National: International.
      
