
# Volkswagen debuting new ID. concept

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:02:06+00:00**

Author: **William Stopford**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/804808/volkswagen-id-concept/)

- shares
Volkswagen is making sure it brings appropriate ID when it visits the Petersen Automotive Museum this month – an ID. concept, that is.
The company has announced it’s unveiling an all-new ID. concept vehicle at the Building an Electric Future exhibit, set to open to the public on November 20.
The exhibit is intended to show Volkswagen's history and, according to its press release, “emphasise the brand’s plans to become the foremost producer of electric vehicles”.
What better venue, then, to introduce a flagship electric sedan? That appears to be what Volkswagen is doing, the artwork accompanying its press release featuring the ID. Vizzion concept that debuted at last year’s Geneva motor show.
Unless the artwork is a red herring, the “all-new” ID. concept could be a new version of the ID. Vizzion, an enormous electric sedan measuring just 15mm shorter than a long-wheelbase Volkswagen Phaeton and longer even than Volkswagen’s current flagship sedan, the China-only Phideon.
The ID. Vizzion concept was designed for Level 5 autonomous driving. It therefore has no driver’s seat, steering wheel or foot pedals, and little dashboard to speak of, its interior resembling a stylish lounge more so than a passenger car.
Underpinned by the MEB platform, it uses a dual-motor electric powertrain with all-wheel-drive and 225kW. It’s said to be capable of 665km of electric range under the less stringent NEDC combined cycle.
Volkswagen has previously said the ID Vizzion previews a model slated to enter production by 2022, though not all of the concept's technology will be production-ready by that date.
The company was also set to replace the Phaeton with an all-electric model, which may be one and the same.
There’s one other possibility for this ID. concept debut. A leaked product roadmap two years ago revealed the first six members of Volkswagen’s electric ID. family would include an as-yet unseen vehicle, the I.D. AEROe.
This could be the rumoured electric successor to the Beetle, which – much like a brash flagship sedan – would make a great deal of sense for an exhibit on Volkswagen’s heritage and future.
The exhibit at the Petersen will showcase how Volkswagen’s MEB platform was engineered and the variety of models it’ll underpin. Four existing ID. concepts will also be featured.
13
nextpreviousVolkswagen debuting new ID. concept
