
# Sim-U-Nation team wins Abu Dhabi GP trip

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:36:35+00:00**

Author: **Capital Sport**

Original: [Capital Sports](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/sports/2019/11/02/sim-u-nation-team-wins-abu-dhabi-gp-trip/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 2 – Sim-U-Nation earned a fully-paid trip to the United Arab Emirates to watch live the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix after winning the 2019 Johnnie Walker Go Kart Championship at Whistling Moran on Saturday.
      
The competition dubbed Kenya Racing Festival is a one-of-its-kind amateur karting tournament aimed towards providing amateur racers and racing enthusiasts the chance to experience the pro side of karting.
Team Sim-U-Nation attained 284 points, Corsa Volate came second with 216, while team Master Bater with 202 points.
Team Sim-U-Nation that consisted of Steve Muriuki, Ed Behr, Sam Karangatha and Wessel Van Djick, recorded the fastest time in all the 7 round of championship that took place Saturday at Whistling Moran.
The championship started with qualifiers that were held on September 14, which attracted at least 80 teams.
Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) Sales Director, Andrew Kilonzo who was present at the event, said: “Congratulations to all the finalists who competed and especially to Team Sim-U-Nation for emerging as the champion of the first edition of Kenya Racing Festival. I am elated that 20 teams made it to the national finals giving their best.”
Johnnie Walker is the ‘Official Whisky’ of Formula 1. The Walker family behind the brand has connections with Formula 1 that goes back to the 1950s. As part of its Formula 1 deal, the brand is increasing its investment in the programme and aims to gain a further five million signatories in the next four years.
“As a result of our new arrangement, we have access to a global television audience of more than 450 million people and a track attendance audience of around 1.5 million every year,” Kilonzo added.
 
 
(Visited 17 times, 1 visits today)
