
# Ava DuVernay Defended A Nigerian Film That Was Disqualified From The Oscars

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:46:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/ava-duvernay-defended-a-nigerian-film-that-was-disqualified-from-the-oscars-19296893)

Ava DuVernay has a question for the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Specifically, the director wants to know why a Nigerian film was disqualified for the 2020 Oscars. And it's likely, others will have the same question once they hear the wild reason the Nigerian film Lionheart was deemed ineligible.
On Monday, Nov. 4, The Wrap reported that Nigeria's first-ever submission for Best International Feature Film was disqualified from next year's Oscars. The reason being that the film is largely in English, with under 12 minutes of dialogue in Igbo, the language spoken in eastern Nigeria, despite the fact that English is the official language of Nigeria. This reportedly violates the Academy's rule that entries in this category, which was known as Best Foreign Language Film until this year, must have “a predominantly non-English dialogue track.” But, DuVernay is questioning that rule in connection to this particular film. "Are you barring this country from ever competing for an Oscar in its official language?" she asked, tagging The Academy's official Twitter account.
The Academy has yet to respond to DuVernay's question. Bustle reached out to the Academy for comment on both the situation and DuVernay's tweet, but did not immediately hear back. But, Lionheart director and star Genevieve Nnaji did.
Retweeting DuVernay's pointed question, Nnaji pleaded her case to the Academy, noting that having her film in mostly English is a larger statement about her home country. But, her tweet also begs the Academy to question their own rules on what makes a film an international one. Lionheart "represents the way we speak as Nigerians," Nnaji wrote. "This includes English which acts as a bridge between the 500+ languages spoken in our country; thereby making us #OneNigeria."
