
# Bahamas’ $75 Million Spiny Lobster Fishery Has Been Set Back Years In The Wake Of Hurricane Dorian

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Daphne Ewing-Chow**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/daphneewingchow/2019/10/31/bahamas-75-million-spiny-lobster-fishery-has-been-set-back-years-in-the-wake-of-hurricane-dorian/)

Hurricane Dorian, which battered the Bahamas between September 1st and 3rd 2019, has devastated the islands’ $75 million Caribbean spiny lobster fishery. The vital economic sector, which employs more than 9,000 Bahamians, will take years to rebuild from the category-5 hurricane.
A Post-Disaster Damage and Needs Assessment carried out by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), under the leadership of Dr. Iris Monnereau and in collaboration with the government of the Bahamas, during October 2019, confirmed that nearly 80% of the fisheries sector and its supporting infrastructure, including lobster and conch collection centres in Grand Bahama and Abaco, ranged from being significantly damaged to completely destroyed.
The FAO has recommended emergency assistance to help kick-start the industry; however, given that the spiny lobster fishing season began in August, there will not be enough time to recover the majority of the losses associated with the hurricane, especially given that Grand Bahama and Abaco, which were the most severely affected islands, produce more than a third of all spiny lobster catches in The Bahamas. Another challenge lies in the fact fishers from Marsh Harbour and other highly impacted areas have relocated to other islands.
Lobster is one of the most expensive fishery products and according to the Bahamas Reef Environment and Educational Foundation (BREEF), lobster exports account for 40% of the total exports of The Bahamas and 60% of all of the islands’ fisheries landings. Prior to the hurricane, fishers reported a surge in demand for the shell fish, which resulted in prices reaching market highs of $14-$15.50.
Approximately 5 million pounds of Bahamas lobster tails are exported to the United States and Europe each year and the combined exports of spiny lobster (meat, whole and live) are in the thousands of tonnes each year. The sector plays a major role in supporting the economy, reducing the trade deficit and is an important element in the country’s food security.
Given that the Bahamas is a key exporter of the spiny lobster, rebuilding the industry will require bringing the processers and buying stations up to international export standards. In Abaco, the sole seafood processor has been completely decimated and in Grand Bahama Island, the larger processors experienced flooding of more than 6-feet which destroyed the majority of the island’s processing infrastructure.  
Wooden structures called condos, which are the main gear type used for catching lobster on the islands, also suffered losses in excess of $10 million.
In 2013, the Bahamas was number 1 in the world for spiny lobster production, producing more than 6,000 tonnes of the luxury fisheries product, while today it is in second place, after Brazil. In Grand Bahama island it is the largest economic sector, while in Abaco it is the second largest sector after tourism.
"We have seen first hand the devastating impacts of hurricane Dorian on the fisheries sector in the Bahamas,” said Dr. Monnereau of FAO's subregional office of the Caribbean in Barbados. “We are advising and providing support to the government and international donor community in kickstarting the fishery within a "build back better" framework so that fishers can continue to derive their livelihood from this important sector.”
Marine habitats such as mangroves, sea grass beds and coral reefs were all heavily affected by the impacts of the hurricane, and are expected to affect the long-term sustainability of the sector.
Bahamas spiny lobster is the only Caribbean lobster fishery to be certified sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC). It is estimated that, with the right support, the sector can be back up and running within two years.
