
# Speculation over who will replace David Simpson after DUP MP stands down following affair

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CLAIRE SIMPSON**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/politicalnews/2019/11/07/news/speculation-over-who-will-replace-david-simpson-after-dup-mp-stands-down-following-affair-1758694/)

THE DUP is to reveal in the coming days who its Upper Bann candidate will be after it emerged David Simpson will not seek re-election following a reported affair with a party colleague.
Mr Simpson announced yesterday he will not stand in the December 12 general election, saying his family had given him "a precious second chance".
The MP has represented Upper Bann since he won the seat against former first minister and Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble in 2005 and had a majority of almost 8,000 over Sinn Féin's John O'Dowd two years ago.
He had previously served as an MLA and Portadown councillor.
Sitting Upper Bann MLA Carla Lockhart is the front-runner to be the DUP's candidate.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
The 34-year-old topped the poll in the 2016 assembly election, ahead of party colleague Jonathan Buckley and comfortably beat Mr O'Dowd who is also seeking election next month.
Party leader Arlene Foster and MEP Diane Dodds, who lives in the constituency, are among other potential candidates.
A staunch Orangeman, Mr Simpson resigned from the order and the Royal Black Institution last year following reports of an extra-marital affair with married DUP councillor Louise Templeton.
Mr Simpson said yesterday it was "the right time to pass the baton on".
"In recent times it has been well publicised that I made a mistake that brought hurt to my wife and family as well as bringing heartache to another family," he said.
"These were my mistakes and for them I am truly sorry.
"I have learned from my failings and my wife and children have given me a precious second chance and together we intend to look to the future together."
He said he looked forward to supporting the DUP "in other facets in the future".
Co Armagh-born Conor McGinn, who is seeking re-election as a Labour MP in St Helen's North in England, said Mr Simpson was well-respected across the House of Commons.
"I never quite converted him to following Armagh GAA but he became a very good friend, and was a sound colleague and fine public representative," he said.
"I wish him and his family the very best."
Mrs Foster thanked Mr Simpson for "his many years of consistent public service to the people of Upper Bann and to our party".
"His service has been characterised by dedication to the people who elected him and his business skills and experience were used to the benefit of Upper Bann," she said.
"I wish him well as he takes a new direction in life and I know that he will continue to use his many talents to the benefit of the party and the wider Northern Ireland cause."
After details of his affair emerged, the father-of-three moved out of the house he shared with his wife of almost four decades.
He also resigned as a director of Universal Meat Company - the firm he founded with his wife more than 30 years ago.
Ms Templeton had worked as his parliamentary assistant since 2005.
A former councillor in Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council, she did not contest this year's council elections.
After the affair became public, she sent a letter to party colleagues offering "sincerest apologies for the inappropriate actions I was involved in".
