
# Stellar Foundation Burns 55 Billion XLM Tokens, Half of the Total Supply

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:29:38+00:00**

Author: **Bhushan Akolkar**

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/stellar-burns-xlm/)

During the Stellar Meridian conference on Monday, November 4, the Stellar Development Foundation CEO Denelle Dixon disclosed that they have burned 55 billion Lumens (XLM) tokens which is half of the overall cryptocurrency supply.
Earlier there were a total of 105 billion tokens of which 20 billion were in circulation. With the recent burning, the total supply has reduced to only 50 billion XLM tokens. In its latest Medium blog post, the Stellar Foundation noted that token burning was part of the company’s effort to become more efficient as it moves forward. The Stellar Foundation wrote:
Speaking to the attendees during the conference about the decision to burn XLM tokens, Dixon explained:
Dixon further added that instead of deciding on an arbitrary number to burn the XLM tokens, the Stellar Foundation decided to properly calibrate on the XLM tokens it can use for the next decade. The blog post mentions that the SDF will use a majority of the remaining funds to upgrade the Stellar blockchain network, create several use-cases for the XLM tokens, support network partnerships, and other things.
After the latest burning, the SDF controls over 30 billion XLM tokens, of this, 12 billion tokens are allocated in the direct development fund which supports the growth of the organization. The Stellar Foundation has kept 10 billion XLM tokens aside to make important investments whereas 2 billion tokens are kept for the “ecosystem support”.
Popular Twitter account Whale Alert has mentioned all the massive XLM token transfers.
