
# David Haye recalls world heavyweight title win which changed British boxing on 10th anniversary

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/boxing/david-haye-recalls-world-heavyweight-20829256)

It is hard to believe a decade has passed since the legs of Nikolai Valuev buckled in Nuremberg and the Russian giant was toppled by David Haye.
But, in equal measure, the days when the heavyweight division failed to strike a chord with the British public also seem a lifetime ago.
Before Haye travelled to Germany in November 2009, the lucrative era of Anthony Joshua and Tyson Fury seemed a distant pipe dream for fans of boxing’s most storied division.
That all changed on a dramatic and historic night as Haye defied the odds to defeat a man seven inches taller and seven stone heavier to claim the WBA world heavyweight title.
It was the first heavyweight bout to be screened on Sky Sports Box Office since Lennox Lewis took on Mike Tyson seven years earlier.
Since that fateful day, 19 heavyweight fights have been given pay-per-view status in a division which has once again risen to the forefront of the sport.
“It really felt like it had a big impact in British boxing,” Haye declares as he looks back on the night which changed his life and the landscape of the sport.
“After Lennox Lewis retired, there wasn’t much that was going on. People weren’t really talking about the heavyweight division, there weren’t any heavyweight fights really on pay-per-view, for instance.
“It was all on other networks here and there, it wasn’t a big marquee thing until I beat Valuev. That seemed to capture the imagination and that was it. It was back on pay-per-view and people were talking about the heavyweight division.
“Sky Sports saw and believed these fights were enough to justify pay-per-view, and that was it. After that, the big title fights have always been on pay-per-view and my other fights, except for my two comeback fights, have all done fantastic numbers on Sky Box Office.
“That means the public wanted to see and be part of that journey.”
Haye was not the first man to attempt to end Britain’s barren spell in the heavyweight division - but it took something special to capture the imagination.
The narrative could not have been better. Perfectly dubbed “David vs Goliath”, Haye's challenge tied in almost perfectly with biblical folklore.
The story made for an easy sell to the casual fan, especially after he had made his name by ruthlessly cleaning up the cruiserweight division.
“David and Goliath,” he remembers. “A biblical story, going back from day dot, this was it. This was my Goliath moment.
“David, me, went out there and I had to use my Hayemaker as a slingshot. I managed to catch him with it perfectly in that twelfth round. His legs wobbled and I thought I could get him out of there for a moment.
“I didn’t quite topple hm, I had to settle for a points victory, but on foreign soil that isn’t easy to do, especially against someone as influential as he was.”
Mirror Fighting has launched a new weekly boxing show in association with Betfair in which we analyse the latest big fights, play matchmaker, and preview forthcoming bouts.
Former super-middleweight world champion George Groves provides expert analysis.
To watch the latest show in full, click here.
When the final bell rung, seconds after rocking Valuev for the first time in his career, Haye celebrated as if the world title was his.
But the anxious wait for the judges scorecards seemed to “last a lifetime”, before a moment of sheer elation Haye knows will never be topped in his existence.
He commented: “Don King was one of his promoters, the Sauerlands were involved with him as well. He had a powerful infrastructure around him and usually when that’s the case the judges might not be entirely fair.
“Fortunately for me, the judges were scoring it fairly - at least two of them were - and they both had me winning by four rounds.
“I thought I’d won it then it took a long time for the scores to be added up. I think it was three or four minutes but it felt like a lifetime.
“That’s never normally a good sign. I’m stood there thinking ‘I’ve won this. I know I’ve won this. I must have won this’, but until you hear Michael Buffer say ‘AND THE NEW’, you don’t quite know.
“Then it’s just like an unbelievable high that I’ve never experienced before. It’s a moment that is etched into my psyche forever.
“I know now that you can be that elated at one given time about something. I just screamed out. I don’t know if it was relief, or ecstasy. I’ll never be able to describe it and I don’t think I’ll ever be able to reach those highs again whatever happens.
“This one particular goal was something I’d been working towards since I was a small child, and when you finally achieve it, there is no other goal I could set myself that could give me that high and mean so much.
“I always knew the odds were stacked against me to do it. I’m obviously not a big guy, comparatively to the guys I’ve been fighting.
“On average, they’ve always been four or five inches taller and three stone heavier. This guy was a giant - he was seven stone heavier, a foot taller.
“I knew I was going to be the underdog, the outsider, but I just had to believe in myself and have that mental fortitude to know that, no matter what happened, I was going to find a way to become victorious.”
Few gave Haye a prayer entering the ring in Germany against the giant Valuev, a man who was never knocked down in his professional career.
But Haye famously adopted a unique method of being motivated by the imposing nature of his opponent - by adding a life-sized cardboard cut-out to his gym decor in the build-up.
“I just remember how big he was,” Haye says.
“I had a cardboard cut-out of him put in my gym just so that every day I’d actually look at the size of him. Every time I finished a round of sparring, or a round on the bag or the verse climber, I’d look around and just see the size of him.
“If there was an ounce of energy left in my to put into training, it would motivate me to go back and empty the tank completely.
“I knew it was going to be hard, I knew it was going to require me to be in perfect, optimal condition. All it would take was a lapse of concentration or get a little bit tired and not be able to move, and I’d then be at the mercy of this giant.
“He was 7ft2, just under 24stone. He was an absolute monster. For me to maintain a perfect gameplan, I needed to be in optimal physical condition and I whipped myself into shape and put it on the line.
“Thank god, it all worked out exactly as I anticipated.”
Haye’s win is etched in British boxing folklore as a “where was I?” moment, undoubtedly the defining point in Haye’s dramatic career.
He says: “Over the last 10 years, people have come up to me every day and they say ‘I remember I was in a pub watching you fight Valuev, I remember it’ or telling me there story.
“Everyone remembers that one fight, where they were that night. Out of all my fights, that’s the one that people always, for some reason, remember where they were when it happened.
“It’s nice to be part of so many people’s memorable moments, even all the way back to 10 years ago.
“That’s what boxing is. It’s bringing people together, celebrating, cheering. They’re in there taking the blows with me, and when you finally achieve something and it means so much to them as well as yourself because they’ve been with you since the start, it’s a beautiful feeling.”
