
# Robredo is ‘cochairperson’ of anti-illegal drugs council

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:11:06+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/06/robredo-is-cochairperson-of-anti-illegal-drugs-council/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
VICE President Leonor “Leni” Robredo was placed on the spot on Tuesday after Malacañang announced her official designation as the administration’s antidrug czar.
In a one-page memorandum, President Duterte appointed Robredo as the “cochairperson” of the Interagency Committee on Anti-Illegal Drugs (Icad) up to October 31, 2019-June 30, 2022.
“The Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency [PDEA], Philippine National Police, Dangerous Drug Board and all other law enforcement agencies are hereby directed to extend their full assistance and cooperation to the Vice President to ensure the success of the government’s efforts in the war against illegal drugs,” Duterte said.
In a phone interview, Presidential Spokesman Salvador S. Panelo told reporters Robredo could still opt to decline the offer, although he urged her to accept it.
“If she does not accept it, all her criticisms [on the government’s antidrug drive] will mean nothing,” Panelo said.
Duterte first made the offer to Robredo last week after she criticized his handling of the government’s anti-illegal drug campaign.
Panelo said Robredo’s acceptance of the offer will allow her to attend Cabinet meetings again and give her almost full discretion in managing the government’s campaign against illegal drugs.
Robredo had resigned as Duterte’s housing secretary in 2016 after she was banned by the President from attending Cabinet meetings.
“If she accepts [the offer], she could attend [the Cabinet meeting] on Thursday,” Panelo said.
“She could do whatever she likes. All the drug agencies will be cooperating and assisting pursuant to the memorandum issued by the President directing them to support,” he added.
He, however, noted Robredo would still not be able to change the heads of Icad member-agencies without Duterte’s go-ahead.
“She can request that [change of officials] to the President, since he is the one who appoints them [heads of Icad agencies],” Panelo said.
PDEA Director General Aaron Aquino said they welcome the inclusion of Robredo in the Icad.
As the head of PDEA, Aquino is also the chairman of the Icad, which has 44 implementing-agency members, including the Department of the Interior and Local Government and the Department of Justice.
Formed through Executive Order 15, Icad aims to improve the coordination among relevant agencies covering all aspects of the government antidrug campaign, namely, law enforcement, advocacy, judicial and rehabilitation aspects.
“I think she will be an effective addition to our advocacy and rehabilitation cluster,” Aquino said in a radio interview.
“As I said, we will give her 101 percent of our support,” he added.
Aquino, however, reiterated his previous statement that Robredo may be ill prepared in handling Icad’s law enforcement cluster.
“She has no experience when it comes to the law enforcement side. In case she accepts the position as [anti]drug czar, this will be the first time she will be dealing with law enforcers,” Aquino said.
On Tuesday evening, the Office of the Vice President’s Spokesman Barry Gutierrez held a press conference, where he questioned the specifics of Robredo’s designation.
“It is clear base from the memorandum that we have received that the position being offered is not substantial. First, it is clear that the position, cochairman, does not exist in Executive Order 15, so we don’t know how this will be resolved,” Gutierrez said.
He also criticized the pronouncement of Aquino, who will be Robredo’s cochairman in the Icad, that Robredo will likely fail as a antidrug czar.
“How then can we take the offer seriously, if the cochair in the committee expressed he does not believe [in the capability] of his cochair,” Gutierrez said.
Gutierrez ended the press conference without categorically stating if Robredo will accept or decline the offer.
Instead, he said Robredo will issue on Wednesday a statement on the offered appointment and how the government should go about its war against illegal drugs.
Image Credits: PHOTO FROM THE OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT
