
# Notes from the 560: Wells of Death

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/opinion/others/notes-from-the-560-wells-of-death/articleshow/71859702.cms)

What would you do if you found a 65 foot hole sinking into the ground for no apparent reason? I’ll tell you what some of Karn­ataka’s politicians would do. A hole that deep is a great place to hide rebel MLAs and horses that want to jump ship. It works both ways - for those who have split a party, lured legislators to abandon their party and vice versa for the party that is desperately trying to keep its members from leaving. Resort politics is established in the state but it’s still pretty easy to locate legislators in a guarded resort. It’s much more difficult when you stash all your incumbents, political turncoats, independents and rebels into a hole dug in some corner of the state. Even satellite imagery is unlikely to find things hidden in a hole because it’s in and under the earth’s surface. What else can one hide in a deep hole? There’s always black money that can be stashed in it. Off shore accounts right from Switzerland to Antigua to some unheard of coastal island somewhere in the pacific contain much of India’s wealth. Black money hoarders don’t need to dump their cash in such obscure foreign accounts when a hole deep in the ground can do the job much better and for free. These holes are so deep into the earth’s surface that any agency trying to unearth this would need to spend an insane number of manhours just to skim through the top soil. While the entire country has been celebrating Deepavali this past week, one family in neighbouring Tamil Nadu has been in mourning. The family of 2 year old have had to say goodbye to their son Sujith while the rest of us were eating sweets and bursting fire crackers. The child unfortunately wandered into an uncovered, dry and abandoned borewell. India prayed for Sujith but that had little effect as the child’s life was not salvaged. The depth of the borewell was 65 feet. How many more children have to die before authorities realize that the least they can do is cover up open borewell shafts? These holes are drilled, often illegally in areas where drilling should not be allowed. Permissions are given at the cost of a bribe to residences and commercial institutions which then try to tap the ground water table in an effort to find water. The fact that even 65 feet into the earth’s surface doesn’t yield water is a separate story in itself but once found to be dry; such holes are just abandoned and forgotten. It’s only when a child unable to discern the hole falls in and battles for his or her life that this becomes a priority. In most cases children who fall into abandoned borewell shafts do not survive. This isn’t just a problem that is restricted to Chennai, it’s a national epidemic and Bengaluru is home to way too many abandoned borewell shafts. There are literally hundreds of such shafts in city areas as well as the outskirts. Villages that are being replaced with townships have very little protocol regarding the digging of borewells. The authorities can much rather use these holes to do something useless instead of covering them up and saving lives. This week it was announced that Tipu Sultan’s story will not be taught in text books anymore. We can now discard all the old textbooks into abandoned borewells. Why not? At least that way we can gain some use out of them instead of just fishing out more and more bodies. Follow Aditya Magal on twitter @jhunjhunwala
