
# Jacob Rees-Mogg's Grenfell remarks 'caused huge distress', admits Tory chairman

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:16:29+00:00**

Author: **Aamna Mohdin**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/06/jacob-rees-moggs-grenfell-remarks-caused-huge-distress-admits-tory-chairman)

Cleverly says minister right to apologise, as Tories forced on back foot on eve of campaign
The Conservative party chairman, James Cleverly, has said Jacob Rees-Mogg’s comments on Grenfell Tower “caused a huge amount of hurt and distress”.
Rees-Mogg sparked widespread uproar after claiming the Grenfell Tower fire victims did not use “common sense” when they followed fire service advice to stay put in the burning building.
The leader of the House of Commons issued a “profound apology” after he told a radio interviewer: “I think if either of us were in a fire, whatever the fire brigade said, we would leave the burning building. It just seems the common-sense thing to do.”
Cleverly was asked on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: “Isn’t the reality that [Rees-Mogg] has no idea how these people live? He has no idea how people who didn’t go to Eton, didn’t go to Oxford, didn’t inherit large sums of money really live their lives?”
Cleverly said Rees-Mogg’s comments were hurtful and it was right for him to have apologised. “Jacob recognises that what he said was wrong and caused a huge amount of hurt and distress,” he said. “He has apologised unreservedly and I do think that is the right thing for him to do.”
He told Today that no one could “credibly” know what decisions those trapped in the tower faced that evening. “I don’t think anyone could think through the circumstances or the decisions we would make,” he added.
The Conservative MP Andrew Bridgen has also apologised after initially defending Rees-Mogg, suggesting the Commons leader was cleverer than those who died in the fire. Asked whether the cabinet minister meant to say he would have left the flats against official advice, Bridgen said: “Yes, that’s what he meant to say.”
