
# Huawei’s leaked ‘MatePad Pro’ looks like an iPad Pro with a punch-hole camera

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:19:47+00:00**

Author: **Ben Lovejoy**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/01/matepad-pro/)

Leaker Evan Blass has posted images of what he says is Huawei’s upcoming tablet, which will reportedly be known as the MatePad Pro.
The device bears a remarkable resemblance to the iPad Pro, with thinnish bezels and rounded display corners, while the keyboard appears to look almost identical to Apple’s Smart Keyboard Folio bar minor differences in key markings…
Blass tweeted an image that also shows an Apple Pencil-like M-Pen stylus. 91Mobiles has more images (below) from its own source.
The main difference from the iPad design is the camera, which is in a punch-hole cutout in the top left of the display.
The site says the device is expected to have flagship specs, including the Kirin 990 CPU and “up to” 8GB RAM. Its is shown in both black and white versions.
The punch-hole camera seems a somewhat odd decision, as the bezels actually appear thicker that those on the iPad Pro, and so could accommodate a front-facing camera with no loss of display area.
Engadget notes that the reported MatePad Pro name seems plausible, as Huawei’s laptops are called MateBooks.
It follows an apparently deliberately leaked image yesterday by Xiaomi of an upcoming smartwatch that closely resembles a slab-sided version of the Apple Watch, complete with digital crown and pill-shaped side button.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
