
# Revealed: uncensored diaries of the Tory MP who partied with Nazis and the idle rich

Published at: **2019-11-03T09:06:10+00:00**

Author: **Donna Ferguson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2019/nov/03/unexpurgated-diaries-chips-channon-interwar-decadence)


        The gossipy writings of Henry ‘Chips’ Channon who recorded the decadence of interwar London are to appear in full at last
      
He dined with Marcel Proust and Jean Cocteau as a young man in Paris in 1918, was a close friend during the abdication crisis to Edward VIII, and partied with Nazis in 1930s Berlin.
Now the diaries of the Conservative politician and socialite Sir Henry “Chips” Channon will be published in full for the first time. They include scandalous revelations that were deemed too shocking for the heavily sanitised edition published in 1967, nine years after his death.
His uncensored and vivid observations about the powerful men and women he socialised with and the antics of London society during the interwar years are certain to fascinate his existing fans and will introduce a new generation of readers to his “elegant, gossipy and bitchy” writings.
In the 1960s many of the people he wrote about were still alive and could have sued for libel. “There will be people whose reputations will be damaged when this comes out,” said the historian Simon Heffer, who is editing the diaries in three volumes.
“There are one or two people at court, around the royal family, who Channon really takes against and who he feels are conspiring to get rid of Edward VIII. And that didn’t come out in the original version.” A gay relationship with “a very prominent friend” was also censored and will be revealed for the first time.
The first volume will be published in September 2020 by Hutchinson and begins in 1918, not in 1934, like the previous redacted version. In it, Channon’s extraordinary life as a wealthy young socialite in Paris emerges for the first time. “He’s constantly having dinner with dukes and duchesses. They are the sort of people that Proust writes about,” said Heffer. Proust himself Channon finds “rather an odd man, as most people did”.
For the first time, readers will also be able to relive Channon’s life spent at cocktail parties and nightclubs with gay men and adulterous spouses in 1920s London. “He’s a bright young thing in his 20s, living in the West End, and all his friends are in high society. He’s out virtually every night.”
The diaries are candid. “There’s an awful lot of drinking and drug-taking – not necessarily by him – but it’s a very decadent society he moves in,” said Heffer. Most of his friends don’t work for a living. “They are the idle rich. And he looks at it and he’s not censorious, but he describes it in great detail.”
The dishonesty, deviousness and occasional depravities of the upper classes are laid bare: “He will talk about people’s personal lives, their sexual behaviour, their treatment of other people. All human life is there.”
The unexpurgated diaries also reveal how Channon’s close friendship with Edward VIII began in the 1920s. “He writes about travelling around America with him. He can see the Prince of Wales is a slight flibbertigibbet, but he likes him and they have a good friendship. So by the time of the abdication, he’s very supportive of him,” added Heffer.
Details of his 1936 trip to Germany for the Berlin Olympics and parties with Göring, Himmler and Goebbels are published for the first time. “You see these Nazi monsters all competing with each other to give the grandest balls and there’s loads of politicians from England, from all over Europe, who go there to be entertained,” said Heffer. Channon finds the Nazis vulgar, “not the sort of people he’d want to have to dinner” – but he is impressed by certain things they have done in Germany, and fears what they will do to Britain in the second world war. “He sees the Germans as a potentially really nasty threat. He’s an appeaser.”
As a result Channon is close to Chamberlain and sees Churchill as a “warmongering vulgarian”. When the diaries were originally published two years after Churchill’s death, the negative comments about the war leader were heavily censored.
“Channon and his circle didn’t trust Churchill – he had not yet had a chance to prove he could be a great leader,” said Heffer. When Churchill denounced Hitler, Channon felt he was whipping up hatred against the Germans. “He criticises Churchill for aggravating Anglo-German relations,” said Heffer.
