
# School kids cooking up a healthy storm, with help from college lecturer

Published at: **2019-11-07T11:34:02+00:00**

Author: **Wishaw Press, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/wishaw-press/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/school-kids-cooking-up-healthy-20831433)

New College Lanarkshire chef lecturer Ann Brown has hosted a healthy eating workshop for kids as part of International Chefs Day.
Local schoolchildren took part in a lively cooking masterclass based on the theme of “How Healthy Food Works”.
The workshop, one of hundreds of similar events that took place this month across the globe, was organised by Ann in her capacity as a committee member of the World Chefs organisation.
 
The organisation has hosted International Chefs Day since 2004 as a way for chefs around the world to give back to their communities through education.
This year’s theme took a closer look at how food affects the body, including what different foods do for us and why we need them.
Thirteen children aged between seven and 12 took part in the fun cooking lesson, which was held in the training kitchens of the College’s Motherwell Campus.
It involved a series of hands-on cooking experiences and games, with each child who participated presented with a certificate.
 
Ann said: “Healthy eating is an important part of education – not only is good nutrition a crucial part of their growth and development, it provides children with more energy, improved health and greater focus in school.
“The children made a variety of healthy meals and drinks, as well as playing games that taught them how vegetables and fruit help to keep different parts of the body healthy. It means a lot to me to help children understand the benefits of healthy eating. It gives me the opportunity to pass on what I consider to be a way of life.”
Ann was supported on the day by lecturer Charlotte Hands, HND Patisserie students Chanel Armstrong and Rachel MacInnes, and HNC Patisserie student Sharon Gardner.
 
