
# Mario Kart Tour is getting a multiplayer beta next month but only for Gold Pass subscribers

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **CJ Andriessen**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/mario-kart-tour-is-getting-a-multiplayer-beta-next-month-but-only-for-gold-pass-subscribers-571109.phtml)

The picture going into the holiday season is looking rosy for Nintendo. With the Switch Lite selling well, a hit new game on store shelves, and the impending launch of Pokémon Sword & Shield, it's more than likely the company is going to see a record third quarter. What's most notable about Nintendo's latest report is strong continued sales of its evergreen titles. Games like Mario Kart 8 Deluxe and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild are still moving more than a million units a quarter despite their age. Another game Nintendo is hoping will become an evergreen title is Mario Kart Tour.
Sure, I didn't care for it back when I reviewed it, but clearly I'm in the minority. Millions of people have downloaded the free-to-play app, continuing to make goodies come out of those pipes as they drive their way through its various tours. For those who have stuck with it since launch, good news is on the horizon: Nintendo is getting ready to start a real-time multiplayer beta for the game.
An exact launch date has not been set, but next month subscribers to the Mario Kart Tour Gold Pass subscription will be able to participate in the real-time multiplayer beta. As a reminder, the Gold Pass subscription has a free, two-week trial period, so if you haven't hopped on board yet, waiting for true multiplayer to come to the app, you should be able to test it out during the beta at no cost to you.
Six Months Financial Results Briefing for Fiscal Year Ending March 2020 [Nintendo]
