
# Freddie Mercury hailed John Deacon for 'saving Queen when they faced ruin'

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:08:57+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/freddie-mercury-hailed-john-deacon-20829762)

Freddie Mercury once hailed John Deacon for being the reason why Queen were able to become a global phenomenon.
The bassist is often the least known member of the band and would tend to shy away from the spotlight.
The band featured three 'assertive personalities' but Freddie has previously revealed that John was the one member of the band that took control of their affairs and the other members trusted him implicitly to make the right decisions about where the band was heading.
Despite his introverted personality Freddie warned in one interview: "Don't underestimate him, he's got a fiery streak."
It was this that led to John make a stand against a record deal that meant the band were 'facing ruin' despite having charting singles and albums.
Freddie's former assistant, Peter Freestone, has revealed the inner secrets of Queen's rise to fame in a tell-all book about the celebrated frontman.
In the memoir, Peter has described how Freddie took John under his wing and they formed the closest bond among the bandmates.
It was a decision that John took that cemented the future of the band and opened the door to the fortunes they enjoyed for the rest of their careers.
The band had signed their first major contract in 1972 with Trident mananagement.
Queen were beginning to make inroads into becoming a successful band but their contract meant they were not seeing much of the money they were generating.
Freddie said: "We had best-selling albums but we were still loving in crummy basement flats on fifty pounds a week."
John decided that he would test the details of the contract and when he asked for an advance to buy a house, he was emphatically denied.
He then took a decision that would change all their lives as he broke the contract, which initially led to an acrimonious split in 1975 from the management company.
Elton John's manager John Reid took over the management of the band, with John keeping a close eye on financial affairs.
This proved to be a big break for the band as later in 1975, their A Night At The Opera album was released, which included Bohemian Rhapsody and their lives were never the same again.
This elevated John to being one of the most important members of the band and in subsequent years, no decisions were made without his approval.
Still now, despite quitting the band in the aftermath of Freddie's death in 1991, Brian May and Roger Taylor still seek his approval on any new Queen projects, of which John still gets a quarter of the revenues.
Speaking about his influence Freddie said: "John Deacon kept a very close eye on all our business affairs. He knew everything that should and shouldn't be going on.
"If God had forsaken us, the rest of the group wouldn't do anything unless John said it was alright."
"He's sort of quiet, lots of people think that, but don't underestimate him, he's got a fiery streak under all that. "
Over 40 years later, John still lives in his London home that broke the band's original contract.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
