
# UFC 244: Fight Prediction

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **ESPN＋ | Paid Program**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/espn/2019/11/02/ufc-244-fight-prediction/)


        This post was created in partnership with ESPN+. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
      
Meanwhile, the massive Conor McGregor shadow is hanging over the bout, after Diaz’s long-time foe said he believes Diaz will beat Masvidal, potentially setting up another fight between the fighters.
But before Diaz can get to that fight, he’ll need to get through Masvidal. And the problem with that is Masvidal is currently the favorite, with no sign of Diaz reversing that in the interim.
Still, this UFC 244 fight isn’t an easy fight to predict. Both Masvidal and Diaz are veteran fighters with plenty of experience on the big stage. And although Masvidal has finished his last four fights by knockout, thanks in no small part to his outstanding striking ability, Diaz is no slouch in striking, either. 
Indeed, the fight between Diaz and Masvidal might be a bloody slugfest. And although Masvidal has powerful striking ability, Diaz might be one of the toughest (and the most capable of taking damage) out of any of the fighters Masvidal has ever faced.
When it’s all said and done, however, it’s hard to bet against Masvidal. He’s been downright impressive in his most recent bouts, especially after he knocked out Ben Askren in record time at UFC 239. Darren Till, who will also be fighting on this card, learned quickly in March just how powerful Masvidal can be. 
Now it’s Diaz’s turn. And we can’t forget that after his grueling 2016, when he fought McGregor twice in bloody bouts, he looked like he was done after he didn’t fight in 2017 and his fight with Poirier in 2018 was canceled. Diaz looked solid against Anthony Pettis in August at UFC 241, but his decision victory belied a much harder fight for him than some had anticipated.
One of the great things about UFC 244 is that anything can happen at any given time. And given how strong and tough Diaz can be, it’s possible he knocks out Masvidal in a stunner.
But given what we know about both fighters, expect this one to be a bloody battle that extends late into the fight until Masvidal becomes too much and takes the fight on a TKO.
UFC 244 kicks off from Madison Square Garden on Saturday, November 2. The main card begins at 10 p.m., but the early prelims begin at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+ pay-per-view.  The $79.98 pay-per-view fight includes a one-year subscription to ESPN+. 

        
          Caesars Casino Odds
        
      

        
          Main Card
        
      

        Main Event (Welterweight): Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz
      

        Latest Odds: Masvidal (-160) | Diaz (+130)
      

        Middleweight: Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till
      

        Latest Odds: Gastelum (-200) | Till (+170)
      

        Welterweight: Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque
      

        Latest Odds: Thompson (-130) | Luque (+100)
      

        Heavyweight: Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov
      

        Latest Odds: Lewis (+100) | Ivanov (-125)
      

        Lightweight: Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie
      

        Latest Odds: Lee (+145) | Gillespie (-175)
      

        
          Preliminary Card (ESPN2)
        
      

        Light Heavyweight: Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker
      

        Latest Odds: Anderson (+140) | Walker (-179)
      

        Featherweight: Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani
      

        Latest Odds: Burgos (-250) | Amirkhani (+200)
      

        Middleweight: Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan
      

        Latest Odds: Tavares (+105) | Shahbazyan (-130)
      

        Heavyweight: Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik
      

        Latest Odds: Arlovski (+115) | Rozenstuik (-145)
      

        
          Early Preliminary Card (UFC Fight Pass)
        
      

        Women Catchweight: Katlyn Chookagian vs. Jennifer Maia
      

        Latest Odds: Chookagian (-160) | Maia (+130)
      

        Welterweight: Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre
      

        Latest Odds: Good (-130) | Rencountre (+100)
      

        Featherweight: Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu
      

        Latest Odds: Arce (+100) | Dawodu (-130)
      
