
# Why Winter May Offer Improved Stock Performance

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Simon Moore**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/simonmoore/2019/11/03/why-winter-may-offer-improved-stock-performance/)

There is reasonable evidence that winter offers better stock market returns than the summer. If so, that’s good news for investing now. This may seem an odd trend, but historically the November-April period has beaten the May-October period for stocks across many time periods and countries. For example, it has been tested across multiple countries and 300 years of UK data. This is sometimes referred to as the ‘sell in May’ rule or the ‘Halloween indicator’.
However, it’s not a certainty. Returns are typically better over the winter months about half the time. That may not seem that compelling, but on average you do come out ahead using this strategy, since, when it works, the gains can be substantial. The fact that it has held up over long periods of time and across many countries, albeit at varying degrees of strength, also lends support for the strategy.
Yet, the strategy is just one consideration for market positioning. Markets in winter can beat summer returns by approximately 4% a year based on history according to research from Jacobsen and Zhang. However, determining a portfolio on just a single consideration can be risky.
Furthermore, we’re not entirely sure why this pattern has tended to hold up. Maybe it’s due to the weather or summer holidays. Perhaps its related to the January effect, which may in turn be related to tax-loss harvesting. Nonetheless, this is a concern it’s encouraging that the seasonal pattern holds up generally over time and across countries. Still, it’s a concern that even through researchers have plenty of theories, we don’t appear to have clear evidence for why it works.
It also appears that right now the U.S. market is expensive relative to history. This means returns in coming years may be lower. For example the U.S. market is currently trading at 23x earnings, when 15x is the historical average. So if stocks fell back to average levels that’s about a 35% decline. That may not happen overnight, or at all, but it does show that even though now may be a seasonally good time to be in the stock market, there are offsetting risks with U.S. valuations that could be a cause for concern. A big drop in the markets could more than offset a 4% gain from seasonal trading.
Even though U.S. valuations are elevated, internationally valuations appear more normal. For example many European countries and Japan currently trade closer to 15x earnings. As such longer term returns for these markets may be more promising and the trend of winter being a better season for the stock market also appears historically robust in many of these countries.
So history suggests we may be about to enter a better period for stock market returns, on average, until around May of 2020. However, given potentially stretched U.S. valuations today, making sure you have some international exposure in your portfolio if you’re a U.S. investor could be a smart move. If you’re looking for additional stock exposure to play this potential seasonal trend, then foreign markets could be a place to get it.
