
# Warren snub of California convention a show of 'disrespect,' state party leader says

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:45:13+00:00**

Author: **Carla Marinucci**

Original: [POLITICO](https://www.politico.com/states/california/story/2019/11/06/warren-snub-of-california-convention-a-show-of-disrespect-state-party-leader-says-1226412)

SAN FRANCISCO — U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren is the latest Democratic frontrunner to confirm she'll skip the California Democratic Party nominating convention in Long Beach this month, sparking sharp criticism from party chair Rusty Hicks.
Hicks took to Facebook last night in a blistering post to urge Warren and former Vice President Joe Biden to "reconsider your misguided decision to publicly snub" the California Democratic Convention scheduled from Nov. 15-17 at the Long Beach Convention Center and the accompanying Univision televised presidential forum.
Biden two weeks ago indicated he would bypass the convention and TV forum, which organizers had hoped would feature the top eight Democratic presidential candidates.
“Your decision is a blatant disregard and disrespect to California’s grassroots leaders who make the phone calls, knock the doors, and give the money... in swing districts and swing states alike... year after year after year,’’ Hicks wrote in his post. “It’s clear you don’t think you need us to win the Primary. But, you *just might* need us in the General. Just sayin.“
Hicks' post is a clear indication that California Democratic Party leaders are unhappy with Warren’s decision to pass on the forum, which will clearly get less national attention now that two leading contenders are out. But strategists say that Warren’s camp clearly believe she should be spending more time in key early states like Iowa and New Hampshire as her poll numbers rise.
The Democratic candidates who have officially confirmed to date, according to party spokesperson Roger Salazar: Pete Buttigieg, Julian Castro, Kamala Harris, Bernie Sanders, Andrew Yang and Cory Booker.
