
# PMD users vent frustrations with the sudden ban of e-scooters on footpaths

Published at: **2019-11-06T06:54:04+00:00**

Author: **Rubaashini Shunmuganathan**

Original: [The Online Citizen](https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2019/11/06/pmd-users-vent-frustrations-with-the-sudden-ban-of-e-scooters-on-footpaths/)

On Tuesday (5 November), electric scooters were banned from all footpaths in Singapore, after Senior Minister of State for Transport Lam Pin Min announced it a day earlier in Parliament.
The Land Transport Authority (LTA) said in a statement that despite “significant efforts” to regulate the use of such personal mobility devices (PMDs) using laws and to educate the public in using such devices responsibly, “offences relating to errant behaviour and incidents involving e-scooters remained on an upward trend”.
Dr Lam said on Monday that it was a “difficult decision” to prohibit e-scooters from being used on footpaths, but “it is a necessary step for pedestrians to feel safe again on public paths, while still allowing e-scooters to grow in tandem with cycling path infrastructure”.
Although e-scooters are banned from being used on roads and footpaths in the Republic, but it will still be allowed on cycling paths and Park Connector Networks (PCNs).
Those found guilty of the crime can be fined up to S$2,000 and jail time of up to three months once the ban is strictly enforced from 2020.
From now till 31 December 2019, there will be an advisory period where offenders will be given warnings, in order to give time for e-scooter riders to adjust to the changes.
“From 1 January 2020, a zero-tolerance approach will be taken and those caught riding an e-scooter on footpaths will face regulatory action. Offenders are liable for fines up to S$2,000 and/or face imprisonment of up to 3 months, if convicted,” LTA warned.
However, bicycles and Personal Mobility Aids (PMAs) like motorised wheelchairs will not be subjected to the footpaths ban, and will also be allowed on all cycling paths and PCNs.
Following the announcement of the ban, one group that is badly affected is of course the PMD riders, especially those who use it as their livelihoods like food delivery riders.
Venting his frustration, Afiq Azman said in a YouTube video that he depends on PMD as a source of income.
“This (ban) has been a concern for a lot of PMD riders, like myself, because a lot of riders depend on this device for income. A lot of them do it for GrabFood, Foodpanda, Deliveroo and other food delivery apps as well,” Mr Afiq said.
However, the biggest issue he has with the ban is that the Government failed to understand that PMD users have to use combined paths – PCNs, Housing and Development Board (HDB) and footpaths – to reach their destination.
As an example, he noted that there isn’t any PCN that connects from his house to Woodlands MRT. As such, he will have no choice now but to push his PMD till he reaches a PCN. “The problem with the ban is that they (PMD riders) have no other alternative but to walk,” lamented Mr Afiq.
If that’s not all, he also said that the sudden ban has come as a shock to a lot of users, and it will also cause a dip in demand for the device as the public has no idea on how to use PMDs anymore.
“From my point of view, the problem with PMDs are that riders are not taking responsibility for the safety of other users in the paths. This is why the Government decided to ban it. But at the end of the day, the actions of a few errant users have cause inconvenience to a lot of other users who follow the rules,” he said.
He continued, “For now, I hope the Government can deliver their promise of an enhanced PCN network that will allow PMD users like us to continue using our PMDs in a safer environment.”
