
# Lyft Pink Gives Discounts To Ride Share Subscribers

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Grant Martin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/grantmartin/2019/11/03/lyft-pink-gives-discounts-to-ride-share-subscribers/)

Last year, San Francisco-based rideshare and tech company Lyft launched a new monthly subscription program called All-Access that gave riders up to 30 rides each month (up to $15) for free. And while that $299 service gave travelers a steep discount over the off-the-shelf fare of $450, All-Access never reached escape velocity among the company’s user base.Now, Lyft is replacing All-Access with a new program called Lyft Pink, which delivers 15% off of all car rides, three free bike or scooter rides each month, priority airport pickups, relaxed cancellation fees and other offers, upgrades and partnerships still to-be-revealed.
“Since the beginning it’s been our mission to improve the way people get around their cities, with this, we recently redesigned the Lyft app to put all of your transportation options front and center,” says Katie Dill, VP of Design, Lyft. “Now with Lyft Pink, you can choose from all the options at a great price and receive benefits that make your journey even better."
Alone, the 15% discount may quickly warrant the $19.99 monthly fee. Any passenger who spends more than $134 on ride shares each month will ultimately come out on top, and the addition of free bike and scooter rentals adds further icing to the cake. In Chicago, where a shared ride from downtown to the airport can easily cost $35, two monthly round trips to O’Hare will justify the subscription. Further, at an airport in which shared rides often suffer from congestion delays, the priority service may save users extra time.
There’s also obviously an upside for Lyft in the new subscription service. By attaching value to further shared rides taken through the service, Lyft is driving loyalty to the platform and keeping potential business away from its competitors. The additional benefit attached to Lyft bikes and scooters also allows the company to expand that loyalty to other platforms where competition is also very high. And in months where travelers don’t take more than $134 in shared rides, Lyft ends up making a small premium off of the subscription.
The new subscription service falls into line with a growing number of companies like Ipsy, Stitch Fix and Blue Apron that have turned to the model that guarantees some basic level of revenue for the company each month. According to Alex Barseghian, member of the Forbes Councils, subscription services help drive prices down while pushing up convenience, personalization and curation. And if Lyft can do that all while helping to show consistent monthly revenue, the program should be a win-win.
