
# Lady Gaga fans 'devastated' after Las Vegas gig is pulled 20 minutes before start

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:07:32+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/lady-gaga-fans-devastated-after-20829854)

Lady Gaga fans were left 'devastated' after the singer pulled the plug on her Las Vegas show just 20 minutes before she was due on stage.
The 33-year-old Oscar-winning singer is in the middle of her two-year residency in the Park Theatre at Park MGM, in which she is reportedly earning $100 million (£77.8 million) for an initial run of 74 performances, entitled Enigma.
The singer announced on her Instagram story to her 37.8 million followers that she had to cancel her performance on Wednesday at the last minute.
She posted a pic of her laying back and taking in air as she revealed the reason why she was too ill to perform.
Gaga wrote: "I’m so devastated I can’t perform tonight for so many people who travelled to come to see me.
"I have a sinus infection and bronchitis and feel very sick and sad I never want to let you down.
"I’m just to weak and ill too perform tonight. I love you little monsters I’ll make it up to you. I promise. [sic]"
With fans taking their seats for the performance, there were a lot of disgruntled punters that took to Twitter to share their frustration at what had happened.
One unhappy fan had made an epic journey to see Gaga perform. They tweeted: "Flew 7000 miles to see @ladygaga in Vegas and she cancels 20 minutes before the show... I love you Gaga but I am f***ing devastated #GagaVegas #Enigma"
They told Mirror Online that they were receiving a refund but had booked the show after Gaga had cancelled dates during 2017's Joanne World Tour.
Alex Rose had flown to the States from the UK and explained what was happening.
She said: "They’re refunding us but unfortunately we leave Vegas tomorrow so can’t do another date. The other dates are sold out anyway so they won’t let us reschedule.
"We booked this holiday back in December purely to see Gaga too after she cancelled the Joanne tour.
"This would’ve been my eighth Gaga show and I love her enough to see her again every time I can. I definitely won’t leave the UK to do it now though.
"I am losing faith in her a little, this is actually my third cancelled Gaga show."
The singer was inundated with 'get well soon' messages and it is currently unclear whether she will be well enough to perform on Friday, the next date on her schedule.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
