
# How You Can Help California Wildfire Victims, Even if You Don’t Live There

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:02:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/lifestyle/a29665646/california-wildfires-2019-kincade-maria-how-to-help/)

Firefighters in California have spent weeks battling intense wildfires, including the massive Kincade fire. Unfortunately, on Thursday, things took a turn for the worse.
On Halloween night, new fires erupted, including the Maria fire, which has already burned more than 8,000 acres. Power has been cut in some areas to prevent new blazes, more than 200,000 people have been ordered to evacuate, and Sonoma’s Kincade fire has now burned about 78,000 acres (i.e., twice the size of San Francisco), according to the California Department of Forestry & Fire Protection.
While California has always been prone to fires and thankfully no one has died, CBS News reports that California fires are only going to get worse and will only continue to devolve because of climate change.
“This is only the beginning,” former California Gov. Jerry Brown told Politico a few days ago. “This is only a taste of the horror and terror that will occur in decades.”
According to the United States wildfires map, below, from Ersi, a geographic information system software company based in California, the location of the California wildfires varies but centers heavily northwest of Los Angeles and in northern areas of the state.
It can be disheartening to watch the destruction from afar, but even if you don’t live anywhere near California, there are things you can do to help wildfire victims. Check out these options and do what you can.
Related Story
How You Can Help Protect the Amazon Rainforest  Alexandra Whittaker Senior News Editor Alexandra Whittaker is a senior editor who writes and edits all things news—follow her on Instagram here.
