
# Juventus Reclaim Top Spot With Derby Victory

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:45:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/serie-a/serie-a-report-torino-v-juventus-02-november-2019/666597)


        Serie A
      
Result: Torino 0-1 Juventus
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Olympic Grande Torino Stadium
Juventus claimed the spoils in the Derby della Mole after defeating Torino to reclaim top spot in Serie A on Saturday night evening.
After netting the winner on Wednesday evening, Cristiano Ronaldo was included in the starting line-up once again as the likes of Wojciech Szczesny, Matthjis de Ligt and Rodrigo Bentancur returned to the side.
Maurizio Sarri's troops took control from the onset as they went in search of an early goal, but they had two penalty appeals turned down while Ronaldo nodded over after fast-pace opening 15 minutes.
Torino, meanwhile, only came to life in the final 10 minutes of the first half as Andre Belotti did well to tee up Soualiho Meite, who blazed over the crossbar from just inside the box.
Juve continued to throw bodies forward in the latter stages but Torino shot-stopper Salvatore Sirigu produced a couple fine saves to ensure the sides went into the break level pegging.
The visitors picked up from where they left off in the first, but they were once again met by the hands of Sirigu, who denied Ronaldo with a fine save after 56 minutes.
Juventus eventually got the opening goal on 70 minutes when De Ligt showed impressive composure to volley home from 10-yards out for his first goal for the Serie A champions.
Torino upped the tempo as they went in search of the equaliser, but even with the introduction of Simone Zaza, the hosts were unable to find a way past the Juve defence. As a result, Juve reclaim top spot from Inter Milan while Torino remain in 13th spot after 11 games.
