
# Here's what the GOP's rough election night in Virginia and Kentucky means for 2020

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:54:00+00:00**

Author: **Chuck Todd and Mark Murray and Carrie Dann **

Original: [euronews](https://www.euronews.com/2019/11/06/here-s-what-gop-s-rough-election-night-virginia-kentucky-n1077156)

WASHINGTON — Yesterday, we wrote that Democrats would have a good or even a great night if they flipped both legislative chambers in Virginia and won Kentucky's gubernatorial contest.
And it looks like they had a good or even a great night.
Democrat Andy Beshear is the apparent winner in Kentucky, leading Republican incumbent Gov. Matt Bevin by about 5,150 votes with 99 percent reporting, per NBC News. (Bevin has not conceded, saying the race is too close to call and citing unnamed "irregularities.")
And Democrats flipped both the House of Delegates and the state Senate in Virginia, giving the party full control of both legislative chambers and the governors' mansion for the first time in more than two decades.
The bright spot for Republicans: GOP Lt. Gov. Tate Reevesis the apparent winner of the governor's race in Mississippi, leading Democrat Jim Hood by more than five points in a state Trump won by nearly 18 points.
If Bevin's surprising victory in 2015 was a canary in the coal mine for 2016 (that a highly unpopular figure could win a political upset fueled by rural voters), is his defeat a canary in the coal mine for 2020 (that a highly unpopular politician might have a difficult time winning re-election)?
After all, Bevin has been one of the least popular governors in the country. As recently as last month, a Morning Consult poll found him at 34% approval/53% disapproval — the second worst gubernatorial rating nationwide.
Also, for all the talk that impeachment would galvanize Republican voters, that didn't necessarily play out in Kentucky's gubernatorial race.
(Another factoid that will make Democrats smile today: In each of the last four off-year gubernatorial elections in Kentucky, the party that won went on to win the presidential race nationwide one year later: Republican Ernie Fletcher won in 2003, Democrat Steve Beshear won in 2007 and again in 2011, and Republican Matt Bevin won in 2015.)
Still, Democrats shouldn't get too carried away with the Kentucky results last night.
Asthe Cook Political Report's Jennifer Duffy wrote on Twitterbefore the race was called: "KY just elected the first Republican attorney general since 1948 and the first African-American attorney general in the state's history. This is one piece of evidence that if Bevin loses, it's about Bevin and not some sign that there are bigger factors at work."
(If you're a Republican senator, are you taking some solace this morning in the fact that other Republicans who weren't styled after Trump as much as Bevin did just fine last night?)
All of that said, Tuesday was a rough night for the GOP. And a good or even great night for the Dems.
The nationalized Kentucky race often felt like it was all about Trump — but don't lose sight of one of Beshear's most important strategies, either: Staunchly defending Obamacare.
While Beshear's apparent win has Democrats cheering, it also could be a reminder to the party's Medicare for All backers that a more moderate health care stance is what pulled a Democrat over the edge in a red state last night.
In other words: you can take defending Obamacare anywhere in the country and win. But you can't do the same with Medicare for All.
Zero.
That's the number of Republicans who will represent Virginia's Fairfax County in 2020 at either the state or congressional level, Dave Wasserman notes.
It's a stunning turnaround for Fairfax — an affluent and increasingly diverse county just outside of Washington, D.C. Republican presidential candidates regularly won the county from 1968 until 2004.
And it's yet another sign of GOP weakness in fast-growing suburbs, where animosity toward Trump has run up the Democratic score in the 2018 and now the 2019 elections.
(By the way, don't ignore the Democratic downballot victories in Pennsylvania last night, either.)
Well, this seems like a significant ... refreshment.
In an "supplemental declaration" provided to House investigators on Monday and released yesterday, U.S. Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland said that other witnesses's testimony have now "refreshed [his] recollection" about conversations involving aid to Ukraine.
The key excerpt: "I now recall speaking individually with [top adviser to the Ukrainian president] Mr. Yermak, where I said that resumption of U.S. aid would likely not occur until Ukraine provided the public anti-corruption statement that we had been discussing for many weeks."
Three things strike us about this new development:
After all, Sondland just did what Democrats have said they feared from too much public disclosure — adapting his testimony to match what others have already told investigators.
