
# Best Budget Phone Deals for November 2019

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:15:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Walker-Todd**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/mobile-phone/budget-phone-deals-3776929/)

There's never been a better time to buy a low-cost smartphone. With flagship phone sales levelling out, manufacturers have put more effort than ever into making truly competitive low-cost phones that pull in premium features without the high price tag.
As such, we've collated a list of some of the best phones money can buy right now, assuming you're on a tight budget. Using the same £200 price limit as our Best Budget Phones roundup, below you'll find a host of devices that punch above their weight in terms of features, performance and design, considering their price.

        Xiaomi Mi A3 (128GB)From: GearBestWas: £235.77Now: £153.86  (£81.91 off) View Deal
      

        Xiaomi Redmi 7A (32GB)From: GearBestWas: £99Now: £78.50  (£20.50 off) View Deal
      

        Motorola Moto G7 Power (64GB)From: AmazonWas: £179Now: £159.95  (£19.05 off) View Deal
      

        Samsung Galaxy A20e (32GB)From: AmazonWas: £169Now: £142  (£27 off) View Deal
      

        Realme 3 Pro (128GB)From: GearBestWas: £273.46Now: £196.25  (£77.21 off) View Deal
      

        Samsung Galaxy A60 (64GB)From: GearBestWas: £245Now: £188.40  (£56.60 off) View Deal
      

        Samsung Galaxy A40 (64GB)From: AmazonWas: £219Now: £178.99  (£40.01 off) View Deal
      

        Xiaomi Redmi Note 7 (4GB RAM, 64GB)From: AmazonWas: £174.99Now: £159.90  (£15.09 off) View Deal
      

        Honor 20 LiteFrom: GearBestWas: £249.99Now: £188.40  (£61.59 off) View Deal
      
Nokia 1 Plus (8GB)From: AmazonWas: £89.99Now: £64.96  (£25.03 off) View Deal< >
There are a lot of affordable smartphones out there and although swinging for the lowest price tag can be tempting, it doesn't make sense to skimp on a product you'll likely end up using almost every day for months or years at a time.
Try and buy from an established brand that you know and trust, not only as bigger companies' products are usually held to higher quality standards, but should anything go wrong with your purchase, more established players also typically offer more robust customer support systems.
Don't expect affordable phones such as these to feel like miniature flagships; such phones most obviously sacrifice hardware and/or camera performance to cut costs, while others opt for lesser build quality or less-premium materials - such as polycarbonate instead of glass or metal.
The display and camera used to be two of the most obvious indicators that you were using a budget handset but even these fundamental pieces of phone hardware have improved massively in recent years. Entries like the Xiaomi Redmi Note 7 highlight this shift perfectly.
There are also devices, like the Motorola Moto G7 Power, which place a focus on excelling in one specific area (in this phone's case, battery longevity) whilst still feeling like a more conventional affordable phone in other respects.
One other advantage of buying a more affordable smartphone is that, if you're after a contract, such devices are more likely to come with zero upfront costs, lower monthly pricing and, potentially, shorter-term plans. As such, they also make great first-time options for those new to smartphones, those who are accident-prone and kids.

        From: GearBestWas: £235.77Now: £153.86  (£81.91 off) View Deal
      
Xiaomi Mi A3 is an excellent-value budget phone running Android One rather than MIUI and thanks to this GearBest deal, comes with around £80 off its asking price. Read our Mi A3 review.

        From: GearBestWas: £99Now: £78.50  (£20.50 off) View Deal
      
We were surprised to find that the already astoundingly affordable Xiaomi Redmi 7A gets over a 20% discount, thanks to GearBest. One of the best sub-£100 devices on the market made even better.

        From: AmazonWas: £179Now: £159.95  (£19.05 off) View Deal
      
Save £19 on the already-affordable Moto G7 Power, with its outstanding battery longevity. Why not read our full Moto G7 Power review to help you decide.

        From: AmazonWas: £169Now: £142  (£27 off) View Deal
      
One of the most affordable members of Samsung's A-series smartphones, the Galaxy A20e still boasts powerful features, like a dual-sensor main camera that features a 13MP primary sensor with an impressively wide f/1.9 aperture, alongside an ultrawide-angle secondary 5MP snapper, with a 123° field of view. Better still is the discount it's currently enjoying on Amazon.

        From: GearBestWas: £273.46Now: £196.25  (£77.21 off) View Deal
      
Oppo sub-brand Realme may have only just officially launched in Europe but you could already buy the excellent Realme 3 Pro and now it's available with a significant £75+ discount.

        From: GearBestWas: £245Now: £188.40  (£56.60 off) View Deal
      
While Samsung doesn't directly sell the Galaxy A60 in the UK, if you're looking for a more affordable alternative to the Galaxy A50, why not consider this GearBest deal, which sees over £55 removed from the phone's original starting price.

        From: AmazonWas: £219Now: £178.99  (£40.01 off) View Deal
      
The already-affordable Samsung Galaxy A40 is available on Amazon with an even further discount of over £40.

        From: AmazonWas: £174.99Now: £159.90  (£15.09 off) View Deal
      
One of the most capable budget phones of the moment at a great price - read our full review of the Redmi Note 7 for more.

        From: GearBestWas: £249.99Now: £188.40  (£61.59 off) View Deal
      
The baby of Honor's latest flagship lineup, the 20 Lite still delivers in a number of areas. Plus, thanks to this GearBest deal, you can grab it for a limited time, well under £200.

        From: AmazonWas: £89.99Now: £64.96  (£25.03 off) View Deal
      
The Nokia 1 Plus is already one of Nokia's (read: HMD Global's) most affordable Android One smartphones and now enjoys a £25 discount.
Again, if you'd like to know more about the current affordable phone landscape, give our Best Budget Phones roundup a read.
Click here for the best Samsung deals and Samsung voucher codes.
