
# Morgan hopes inexperienced England learn quickly

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:12:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Cricket/morgan-hopes-inexperienced-england-learn-quickly-20191105)

Cape Town - England captain Eoin Morgan hopes his inexperienced side learn quickly from their mistakes after a batting collapse led to a 14-run defeat against New Zealand in the third T20 in Nelson.
Chasing a target of 181, Morgan was at the crease alongside James Vince as England got the equation down to 44 required from the final 34 deliveries with eight wickets in hand at the picturesque setting of the Saxton Oval.
However, the England captain's departure sparked a dramatic disintegration that saw the tourists lose five wickets in the space of 19 balls, irreparably damaging their pursuit as they fell 2-1 down in the five-match series.
England's line-up contained all six players who had not featured in a T20 international before this series and only Morgan and Sam Billings, the Irishman’s deputy for this series, had been capped more than a dozen times.
Morgan said after the game: "It is the most inexperienced side that we will field. We can't come out expecting to win 5-0, we do need to learn and make mistakes throughout the whole series.
"An important part of learning is recognising exactly where you were and what you did wrong. You can't be blindsided or be stubborn enough to not take in good information.
"It has been a great learning day for us and hopefully the guys take in the information and learn from that, hopefully pretty quickly.
"They have to, and they have to play games so in situations like that you have to throw them out in the middle of it, you can't say your senior players always have to support them and nurture them.
"The reality of it is there is only a certain amount of it that you can do, guys need to go out and perform as well."
Morgan was caught on the boundary while Billings was needlessly run out after a miscommunication with Vince, who tamely chipped to mid-off to fall one short of his half-century.
By the time Lewis Gregory and Sam Curran fell in the space of three Lockie Ferguson deliveries, England's hopes had all but vanished, and they limped to 166 for seven.
"With a lot of wickets in hand you'd expect us to win. Certainly we did, we were in control pretty much up until that point. The guys that came in, we didn't do the simple things right," said Morgan.
"We didn't establish a partnership, we didn't hit with the wind, things that the Black Caps did throughout. We do have to get better and calmer in those situations and when we're chasing."
The fourth game of the series will take place on Friday on Napier.

        
          - TeamTalk Media
        
      
