
# Celtic and Rangers cigarette bins spark fury in Edinburgh as council launches probe

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:36:42+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/celtic-rangers-cigarette-bins-spark-20819613)

Celtic and Rangers cigarette stub jars are causing uproar in Edinburgh city centre.
Two glass jars, one with a Celtic logo and the other with a Rangers logo, sit on top of a small platform that reads 'Pick a team, stub it out'.
Edinburgh City Council are investigating the structure on Princes Street following uproar from locals, but claim it doesn't belong to them.
Stub it Out is a nationwide anti-smoking campaign that aims to build upon the country's record on tobacco control, from the historic ban on smoking in enclosed public places, to the more recently enforced bans on tobacco displays in large shops and the sale of cigarettes from vending machines.
Fiona Kirkwood shared an image of the stand on Twitter on Tuesday.
 
The post sparked fury from locals questioning why the jars didn't represent the capital's own teams, Hearts and Hibs.
 
Her post read: "Just wondering why this on Princes Street?
"No relevance to Edinburgh given we have our own football teams here."
One Twitter user replied: "Get that tae f**k immediately."
Another wrote: "Can't we stub both those teams out?"
A third added: "Thank you for sharing Fiona.
"Pathetic not using our own teams."
 
An Edinburgh City Council spokesperson responded to her post in a comment that read: "Hi Fiona, thanks for flagging this. It isn't ours and we're investigating."
