
# Anthony Martial back to best after stopping sulking claims Ole Gunnar Solskjaer

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David McDonnell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-mcdonnell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/anthony-martial-back-best-after-20791388)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says Anthony Martial is back to his best after swapping sulks for smiles.
Martial has returned from a two-month injury lay-off with two goals in his last three games, with Solskjaer crediting it with a change in outlook.
“He looks happier,” said Solskjaer of Martial, who gained a reputation as a moody player under previous bosses Jose Mourinho and Louis van Gaal. “He seems happy.
“He’s an infectious boy, his smile and sense of humour, you can see he’s happy here and that rubs off on everyone and it’s great to see.
“I don’t think he has had a long run of games as a No.9 since he played many years ago as a boy, and now he’s maturing, he’s 24.
“You have to be obsessed with scoring goals as a No.9 and he’s looking more and more like a player who wants to score goals and not just show his tricks.
“For me, he’s matured a lot in his behaviour on the training ground as well.
“I believe we’ll see the best of him in the next few years.”
Meanwhile, United have chartered a flight to Kasakhstan for their Europa League tie against Astana for around 100 fans who lost their bookings when Thomas Cook collapsed.
Thomas Cook Sports, who were travel partners with United, had pre-sold travel packages to fans for the away leg of United’s tie against Astana.
United have confirmed that fans who can provide proof of booking with Thomas Cook will be awarded free return flights to the November 28 tie, a 6,000-mile round trip.
A United spokesman said: “We have been working through a range of contingency plans to minimise the impact of the Thomas Cook situation for our supporters.
“We are pleased to be able to confirm that Manchester United will be operating a complimentary trip to the forthcoming match against FC Astana in Kazakhstan for those who were impacted by the insolvency of Thomas Cook.
“Beyond the Astana fixture, we are investigating longer term options around facilitating European travel for our loyal fans.”
