
# Inno3D Reveals New Gaming OC X2 & Twin X2 OC RGB GPUs

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:51:48+00:00**

Author: **Mike Sanders**

Original: [eTeknix](https://www.eteknix.com/inno3d-reveals-new-gaming-oc-x2-twin-x2-oc-rgb-gpus/)

If you’re currently in the market for a brand new graphics card that offers solid levels of performance but at a price that’s not too terrible on the bank balance, then it’s hard at present to look past the 1660 or 2060 GPUs from the Nvidia range.
As you may have noticed, however, these have been recently given something of an additional boost with the release of the ‘Super‘ variants. The most recent being the 1660 platform that was treated to this ‘enhanced’ release earlier this week.
If you are, therefore, looking at any one of these graphics cards, then Inno3D might have the perfect solution for you. Announcing a wide new range of Gaming OC X2 & Twin X2 OC RGB graphics cards, there’s something to suit all needs here!
The new range of graphics cards features options from both the Super and non-Super variants of the Nvidia 1660/2060 releases. With around 10 new graphics cards released in total, there really is a huge selection on offer here!
With the range now formally being revealed, we can expect these brand new graphic card releases to start hitting retail shelves within the coming weeks.
With around 10 GPUs released, we don’t want to flood you with specific details on each model. Put simply, there’s too much information for that and we don’t want to tell you stuff you don’t want to know! – For more details about the specific releases, however, you can check out the official Inno3D website via the link here!
At the time of writing, no prices have been confirmed for this new range of graphics cards from Inno3D. Based on current market values, however, we can likely expect the following:
We will look to update these figures as soon as we get some retail confirmation on these specific Inno3D releases. As above though, if you are in the market for a new Nvidia graphics cards, be sure to keep this range in mind. There’s bound to be a solution to suit your performance, aesthetic and budgetary needs here!
What do you think? – Let us know in the comments!
