
# UN condemns US blockade of Cuba; Brazil, Israel join US to oppose

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:38:10+00:00**

Author: **Ben Evansky**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/world/united-nations-cuba-blockade-brazil-israel-us)

UNITED NATIONS – The 193-member United Nations General Assembly overwhelmingly voted to condemn the U.S. economic and commercial blockade against Cuba on Thursday, and in doing so shunned U.S. calls to condemn Cuba for its ongoing human-rights violations.
Brazil and Israel were the only two countries to vote with the United States against the resolution. It was the first time Brazil voted against it, according to multiple reports.
Brazil's new president, Jair Bolsonaro, seen as having a good relationship with President Trump, had made his disdain for Cuba clear during his speech this past September to the U.N. General Assembly. At the time, he condemned Cuban attempts to undermine his country and said the Cubans had been “defeated.”
The Brazilian mission to the U.N. did not respond to a request for comment from Fox News on Thursday.
Ukraine and Colombia abstained. The Colombian foreign ministry explained its non-vote in a statement, saying Cuba was giving refuge to Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) terrorists, supported the Maduro regime in Venezuela and made a string of destabilizing efforts in the region.
U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Kelly Craft acknowledged the resolution would pass but made clear the Trump administration would oppose it, in a speech shortly before the vote.
