
# Mum shares secret ingredient she uses in cocktails when she hasn't been shopping

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:07:06+00:00**

Author: **Courtney Pochin, https://www.facebook.com/courtneypochinmirror/?modal=admin_todo_tour**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/lifestyle/family/mum-shares-secret-ingredient-uses-20788562)

Being a parent means you're often rushed off your feet with no chance to make it to the shops.
So what do you do when you're craving a cocktail but don't have all the necessary ingredients stocked up in the cupboards?
Why, improvise, of course!
One mum has shared her top trick for mixing up a drink when she's a little short on shopping.
After some quick thinking during a girls night with fellow mums, Eleanor Tracey found the perfect thing to mix in with her prosecco for a refreshing treat.
 
What did she use to make her own Bellini?
Baby food.
Yes, you read that right.
The 40-year-old mum-of-two has admitted to pimping her Prosecco with Ella's peach pouches to create, what she calls, an Ellini.
She explained: "I had a very rare night off from mummy/work/wife duty to hang out with some other mum friends and moan about work, kids, lack of sleep, never having any us time and we thought we would use Ella’s peach pouches to pimp our Prosecco and make some Bellinis – we have named them Ellinis.
"We all thought it was a brilliant and hilarious idea – it turns out we’re not the first people to use these in alcoholic drinks and we certainly not be the last."
To make the drink, Eleanor simply pours a glass of Prosecco, opens up a peach pouch and squeezes the fruit in to the drink.
Since her drinks went down so well with her pals, the mum has since tried using other fruit pouches to create cocktails.
She says she's Since made a tasty strawberry vodka cocktail using the strawberry pouch puree, vodka, tonic water, sugar syrup and mint and is planning to try pear martinis next time she has friends over.
