
# Sara Ali Khan’s inside images from her recent magazine shot will leave you in awe!

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:59:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/sara-ali-khans-inside-images-from-her-recent-magazine-shot-will-leave-you-in-awe/articleshow/71931196.cms)

Sara Ali Khan has impressed everyone with her acting skills in her debut film 'Kedarnath' co-starring Sushant Singh Rajput. She received a lot of appreciation and love for her performance in the film. Apart from acting, the actress is also known for her great fashion choices and humble nature.
The actress has often graced covers of leading magazines but even then, every time she brings something new to the table and leaves her fans wanting more.
Recently, the inside images from her recent magazine shoot with Grazia India were released and the actress looks phenomenal!
In the first photo, In the first photo, Sara Ali Khan is wearing an embroidered crop top and a skirt. She looks extremely beautiful in the simple yet elegant.
For next photo she is rocking a snakeskin dress, trench coat paired up with metal earrings.
In this last photo, the actress is wearing a tweed jacket and skirt, along with a host of accessories.
On the work front, she will be next seen in Imtiaz Ali's next co-starring Kartik. The film will hit the theatres on Valentine's Day 2020.
The actress will also feature in 'Coolie No. 1' remake opposite Varun Dhawan. Helmed by David Dhawan who also directed the original flick starring Govinda and Karisma Kapoor. The film has been slated to hit the theatres on May 01, 2020.
