
# Cancel Santa, The Knight Before Christmas Trailer Is the Best Gift of All

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:14:00+00:00**

Author: **Savannah Walsh**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a29726055/the-knight-before-christmas-trailer-netflix-vanessa-hudgens/?utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter&utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM)

Vanessa Hudgens is quickly becoming the heir to the Netflix Christmas movie throne. Appearing in her second Yuletide-centered rom-com in two years, she’s gone from switching with princesses to falling for knights. The Knight Before Christmas hits Netflix on November 21, and its first trailer is everything you imagined and more.
It begins with voiceover from Hudgens’ character Brooke, who laments, “We all grow up fantasizing about finding true love, a knight in shining armor, living happily ever after. But that’s all it is: a fantasy.” Cut to medieval knight Sir Cole (Josh Whitehouse) appearing—by magic only made possible in a Netflix original—in the modern day.
What happens next can only be described as gender-reversed Enchanted. There’s the knight learning what a car radio is, chopping down a Christmas tree with a sword, and referring to Brooke as “m’lady” when he rescues her from slipping on ice. And is that a makeover montage we smell?
The Knight Before Christmas is essentially a stocking stuffed to the brim with all the holiday movie cliches you could ask for, following in the path of 2018’s The Princess Switch, which saw Hudgens playing two roles as a royal and a commoner who switch places when they realize they look identical. As for Hudgens’ future as the patron saint of Netflix festivity, it’s looking pretty secure. In 2020, The Princess Switch is getting a sequel. After that, may we suggest: The Knight After Christmas sequel for a 2021 release?
