
# Barcelona: Key target wants to play with Cristiano Ronaldo at Juventus

Published at: **2019-11-07T03:23:26+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/07/barcelona-key-target-wants-play-cristiano-ronaldo-juventus/)

Luis Suarez is ageing at Barcelona and needs replacing at the earliest. The Uruguay international has not been hiding away from this fact and has revealed that his club needs to look at his long-term successor soon. With that said, Inter Milan superstar Lautaro Martinez has been a prime target for the Catalans.
The Argentina international has been establishing himself as one of the world’s best frontmen and after a pretty decent performance in this summer’s Copa America, Martinez has been an absolutely talismanic figure for Inter Milan. The striker was once again on target during the Italian giants’ match with Borussia Dortmund on Tuesday.
Apart from Barcelona, Real Madrid have also thought to have shown interest in him but so far, the Camp Nou has looked like the most attractive destination for the Inter man given that even Lionel Messi wants him to come to Barca. However, if Diario GOL is to be trusted, there may be a major twist in the tale against the Blaugrana.
Juventus forward Cristiano Ronaldo has apparently asked his team to step into pursuit for Lautaro Martinez and pay 110 million euros to sign the Argentinian superstar. The report reveals that Martinez would prefer to play with Ronaldo than Messi, plus the prospect of staying in Italy with a bigger team looks attractive for him.
Serie A’s defending champions are indeed in need of a striker given that both their natural central forwards- Mario Mandzukic and Gonzalo Higuain- are ageing. Lautaro Martinez has proven himself on the domestic and continental fronts, so he may not even need much adaptation in Turin. There may be something cooking until next summer.
If not Lautaro Martinez, which other player should the Catalan giants look to sign as alternative?
