
# 'Hammer siege' at psychiatric unit leaves staff with safety fears

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sally Hind, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/sally-hind/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/staff-psychiatric-unit-feared-safety-20791812)

Staff at an NHS psychiatric unit have raised safety fears after a man armed with a hammer was involved in a “siege”.
Police were called to a disturbance at New Craigs psychiatric unit in Inverness on Sunday, after a 28-year-old man, who was not a patient, allegedly entered the hospital with the weapon.
He was arrested following the alleged incident on the Maree Ward, a mixed-sex, acute mental health admission unit for adults.
He appeared in private at Inverness Sheriff Court on Monday where he faced two charges relating to possession of an offensive weapon in a public place and a breach of the peace charge.
 
The Record understands staff at the unit have also penned a joint letter to the Mental Welfare Commission with fears over their safety at work.
A source said staff were shaken following the alleged incident.
They added: “A doctor had to defend himself and the staff were under siege.
“The staff on the ward have all come together to write to the Mental Welfare Commission because they are concerned for safety, which is unheard of for them to do that collectively.”
Police Scotland confirmed officers were called to the ward on Sunday.
They said: “Police Scotland can confirm that a 28-year-old man has been charged in connection with a disturbance at New Craigs psychiatric hospital on Sunday, October 27.
“The man appeared at Inverness Sheriff Court on Monday.”
The man made no plea, was committed for further examination and remanded in custody.
He is expected to appear again in court next week.
NHS Highland said: “This is an ongoing police investigation and it would be inappropriate for us to comment.”
