
# Twitter, Facebook And Acting Responsibly

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Enrique Dans**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/enriquedans/2019/11/01/twitter-facebook-and-acting-responsibly/)

Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey has announced that his company will no longer accept political advertising, essentially arguing that the reach of a campaign should be earned, not bought. “While internet advertising is incredibly powerful and very effective for commercial advertisers, that power brings significant risks to politics,” says Dorsey in a thread on his Twitter account.Twitter’s decision, which clearly has next year’s US presidential elections in mind and will mean a big loss of potential advertising revenue, now puts the ball firmly in Facebook’s court, which for the moment is insisting that as a bastion of freedom of expression, it’s not only prepared to take money from political parties, but will happily do so even their messages contain outright lies.
If there is a moment that defined the need for social networks to take responsibility for what they allow to be said on their platforms, it was the 2016 US presidential elections. This was when we clearly saw that social networks stopped being a way to reach voters, and under the influence of powerful foreign actors, came to be a vehicle to polarize the electorate through fake news and networks of bogus accounts pretending to be those of concerned US voters or civic associations. We also saw one particular candidate use inflammatory and divisive messages to target specific groups of voters.
The 2016 elections changed the United States, not simply because of who ended up winning, a man who has damaged the country’s image not only at home but also, and definitely, abroad, but also because it showed that social networks could be used to say things that would not be permitted on radio, television, billboards or other traditional media.
The current moment is delicate, because everything indicates that next year’s elections will see a repeat of the same type of strategies seeking to polarize the vote from the same candidate as in 2016. And Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook have decided to be complicit.
Sure, we know that candidates will say just about anything to win a vote. But it is one thing to claim or promise something in a debate, a billboard, on a television or radio ad or in an interview, which voters can make their own mind up about. Instead, social media campaigns can and are used to target specific groups, typically using networks of fake accounts, to spread lies and misinformation.
Twitter’s move isn’t going to solve the problem. It’s not enough for social networks to simply ban multi-million dollar campaigns with ads that say who they are from in tiny print at the bottom. The social networks will still be plagued with legions of zombie accounts run by the communication teams of political parties or by foreign powers. A large part of this non-genuine activity takes place without knowing who is really behind it. But if social networks are going to put systems in place to detect such coordinated unauthentic behavior, it makes more sense if they are not influenced by the fact that whoever is behind such behavior is the organization that pays them the most money.
Twitter’s move clearly distances itself from Facebook and makes it clear which company is willing to take responsibility for what happens on its platform and which isn’t; which of them has ethical standards and which doesn’t. Zuckerberg knows perfectly well what happened in 2016 and is not prepared to do anything to prevent it from happening in 2020. Twitter’s decision clearly puts the spotlight on Mark Zuckerberg, illuminating his total lack of integrity.
