
# [Update: In The Wild] Here’s your first look at the new foldable Motorola Razr

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:55:00+00:00**

Author: **Joe Fedewa**

Original: [XDA Developers](https://www.xda-developers.com/motorola-razr-foldable-phone-first-look/)


        Update (11/1/19 @ 1:55 PM ET): The Motorola Razr foldable phone has been spotted in the wild with a real-life photo.
      
Motorola (and Lenovo) have been working on a foldable Razr phone for a while now. We’ve been tracking the device since last year and it has slowly become more of a reality. Back in May, the company used a fan-made render to show off the concept, but we’ve yet to see any images of the real thing. That finally changes today.
Evan Blass (@evleaks) has shared the first image of the Motorola Razr (stylized as “razr”) foldable phone. We can now see why Motorola used the fan-made renders because the real device looks very similar. At first glance, you may think this is simply an original Razr flip phone. It has the same chin on the bottom and a camera under the outside display. But if you look closely you can see there’s no archaic number pad here. This is a full touchscreen folded vertically.
These images match up with the outlines we saw back in March. The chin appears to house a small button or fingerprint sensor (or both). We can also see the outside display is lit up and showing some notifications. The outside display is expected to be 600 x 800. Under the display is the lone camera. We can also see a full shot of the 6.2-inch OLED display when opened. Other than that, we can’t see a ton of details. The remarkable thing is just how much it looks like the original Razr.
We previously exclusively reported on the specifications of the device, which include the sdm670 platform (meaning either the Snapdragon 670 or the Snapdragon 710), and 4/6GB of RAM. Motorola is expected to reveal the device at an event on November 13th. How excited are you about this phone? Have the vertical folding wars begun?

        Update: More Images
      
Mobielkopen has posted several more images of the Motorola Razr.
 

        Source: @evleaks
      
After a deluge of leaked renders popped up yesterday, we now have our first look at the device in a real photo. The photo of the Motorola Razr in the wild shows the full screen open and we can see the significant chin at the bottom. This photo is not doing any favors for the chunkiness of that chin. We’ll have to wait and see how prominent it is in real usage.

        Source: SlashLeaks
      
