
# Google Pay support comes to the combo-card system Curve

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:33:43+00:00**

Author: **Damien Wilde**

Original: [9to5Google](https://9to5google.com/2019/11/07/google-pay-support-comes-to-the-combo-card-system-curve/)

The multi-payment system Curve is now supported and usable with the Google Pay mobile payment system.
If you live outside of the UK, you might not have heard of Curve. It’s a service that actually combines all of your existing credit and debit cards into one payment card. This means that you can slim down your wallet and have ‘one card to rule them all’ (via TechCrunch).
The system isn’t perfect but it’s a neat way to combine all of your accounts into one payment card. This also means that should your bank or card not support Google Pay or contactless payments natively, Curve can actually enable it.
You’re able to set default accounts to pay from or change them on the fly if you want to pay with a specific account or credit card. It’s all relatively simple and something that really does make a great deal of difference to your everyday life — even more so if you happen to forget your wallet.
Another notable bonus to this integration is that you can actually spend beyond the preset £30 contactless limit with Curve and Google Pay. This is a UK-wide spending limit set by many banks to help prevent or at least reduce fraud.
To sign-up for Curve in the UK, all you need to do is download the app from the Google Play Store to get your free card.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
