
# Hybrids Are Hotter Than Ever. Here Are Three New Ones, Test-Driven.

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Josh Max**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/joshmax/2019/11/04/hybrids-are-hotter-than-ever--here-are-three-new-ones-test-driven/)

Hybrids have come a long way since the first Honda Insight was introduced into the US market in 1999. They’re no longer seen as an elite alternative driven by virtue-signaling tree-huggers – rather, they get a ton of mileage, easing the hemorrhaging of gas dollars, and they’re easier – but not perfect – for the environment. Here are three recently tested models of different trims and prices, in brief.
The all-new UX 250hc’s being marketed as a sub-compact SUV, but nobody who rode in it including me thought of it as such. The very term, Sports Utility Vehicle, implies a mighty-mighty vehicle which the UX is most definitely not. What it’s got going for it is a significant performance improvement over the standard gasoline-powered model and its mileage which ranges in the approximate 38 MPG territory. It takes off and handles with pleasing pep, especially around town and in spite of its rather dinky 180-horsepower, 2.0 four-cylinder engine.
There’s a third motor operating the rear wheels when you need them, turning the UX into an all-wheel-drive vehicle. Its rear legroom is limited and its rear cargo hold is small, so if you and your family are large folks, look elsewhere. On the plus side, it’s got the latest in optional and standard safety tech, and its Premium package delivers heated and ventilated seats, upscale materials like Japanese fabric-paper panels and a rich, satisfying eight-speaker audio system. Its $39,000-ish starting price isn’t cheap, but it’s Lexus.
In addition to standard safety features, the UX 200 also includes the Lexus Safety System 2.0, which is comprised of driver assistance features such as forward collision warning, automatic emergency braking, adaptive cruise control, lane keeping assist, road sign recognition, and Lexus Enform Safety Connect emergency services. The UX 250h comes with Apple CarPlay but not Android smartphone integration.
 The S60 T8 Polstar, also known as “Volvo’s hot rod,” was a hoot to push around town, with its upscale, smart-looking body, its four-zone climate control, its diamond-looking shifter and its ability to negotiate a fairly massive four-day snowstorm. It falls squarely into its “luxury sedan” segment and this features healthy (but not explosive) performance, a plush cabin and Volvo’s usual list of the latest in safety and tech. Even the base model comes with a forward collision warning, a drowsy driver warning system, automatic climate control, a 12.3-inch instrument panel display and more. Our hybrid – there are four S60 trims available – produced a nervous, satisfying 415 hp and 494 lb-ft of torque. 
The rear electric motor works in tandem to produce more torque more quickly and to favor rear-wheel drive. Buyers get offered a series of sweet performance upgrades like black exhaust pipes, big fat Brembo brakes with gold calipers and more. You also get a handful of performance upgrades like manually adjustable Ohlins shock absorbers. The term “athletic” is tossed around too easily by auto manufacturers, but in this case it really applies – this is a fun car. The brakes are regenerative and I found it hard to get used to them, but once I did, get ready – you step on it and you stop. Mileage combined is a so-so 27 MPG, but on electric alone, you’ll achieve something like 57 MPGe. Mileage doesn’t seem the sole point here, though – it’s the spirit and the speed.
Inside, this approximately $64,000 vehicle (base price) is plush and comfortable, with Nappa leather, a leather sport steering wheel and the aforementioned “diamond” type shift that looks great but asks the driver to shift twice – always to neutral, and then to reverse or drive. I never got used to clicking twice, nor stopped grumbling about it. Also, its infotainment system is unneccesarily complicated, redundant and frustrating to use. That said, Gold accents within the cockpit and gold seat belts add to the swank flavor, and this is otherwise truly a first-class four-door.
“Mitsubushi sits squarely at the front of the line of finest automobiles in the world,” said no one ever. That (not) said, you shouldn’t count them out because A) They’ve survived the tumultuous auto landscape of the last 10 years and B) their redesigned plug-in hybrid crossover was a surprisingly pleasing week’s drive, though I didn’t plug it in, as millions still don’t. It’s got an electric range of 22 miles which is fairly average, but a combined MPGe of 74 is right up there with competitors. It features a compact hybrid-electric propulsion system made up of two electric motors, creating an advanced all-wheel-drive system. Its 2.0 litre gas engine puts out a dinky 117 horses; combined with the electric motors, horsepower increases to 190. It’ll get the job done acceleration-wise, but not without some groaning from under the hood, especially when going uphill.
One interesting aspect of the vehicle is that since the electric motors carry the bulk of the heavy lifting, it does without traditional transmission. The motors also work in tandem so you get an essentially electrified locking center differential, making snow and lite off-road an easy proposition.
Updates this year include a revised front styling and suspension tweaks to assist handling. You also get an electric parking brake, rear USB ports and rear air vents, and more supportive front seats. There’s no more spare tire – rather, a tire-repair kit is included. The Outlander PHEV has gotten mixed reviews, typical for Mitsubishi, but it’s a truly green vehicle that seats 5 comfortably, offers an outstanding warranty, and you may be able to get one for a discounted price.
 
 
 
 
 
 
