
# Electronic Deals – November 1, 2019: Nikon, Ninja, Amazon & More

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:54:04+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-nikon-ninja-amazon-fire-tv-black-friday-holideals-sale.html)

Amazon is discounting a number of Nikon cameras and lenses right now, in its "Happy HoliDeals" event. Allowing you to save big on some great cameras on lenses. Including the Nikon D750 which is up to 15-percent off right now. There are some really good lenses on sale, like the Nikon 50mm f/1.8 lens, that is just $176 today – that's the same price as a used one!
Now this, this is a really great deal on something every wants for Christmas this year. The Ninja Foodi 5-in-1 Air Fryer. Which is now just $199. This one can air fry, bake, dehydrate, grill, and roast. All in the same appliance. Making it a really great one to have on your kitchen counter at home.
This is probably the last time the Fire TV Stick 4K is going to be on sale before Black Friday, and it's unlikely to get much cheaper come Black Friday. You can save $10 off of it right now, picking it up for just $40. That is a really great price for the 4K model, and one of the cheaper 4K streaming sticks that you can buy. This also comes with the new Alexa voice remote, which now has volume buttons! So you can control things with Alexa through your TV now.
Advertisement
Amazon has the new Echo Dot on sale for just $29.99. That matches the price we saw last year during Black Friday, which was the lowest price ever. But the new Echo Dot with Clock is also on sale for $20 off, down to just $39.99. Now that is a really good deal, seeing as the thing only started shipping a few weeks ago.
These deals are all available until midnight PST on the expiration date specified below. These prices are also as up-to-date as possible, but beware that prices will fluctuate throughout the day. For the latest deals from Amazon, you can check out their Deals page here.
