
# Wenger Slams Barca After Team Is Booed Off Field

Published at: **2019-11-06T07:37:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/arsene-wenger-slams-fc-barcelona-after-team-is-booed-off-field/666846)

Following FC Barcelona's uninspired draw with Slavia Prague in the UEFA Champions League on Tuesday night, which was met with jeers from the Camp Nou crowd, former Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger slammed the Spanish giants and also made a claim involving Lionel Messi.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see Barca's poor performance against Slavia in pictures.
        
      
The Catalan club were held to a 0-0 draw at the Camp Nou on Tuesday, in a display that earned boos from the home support, and had many fans calling for manager Ernesto Valverde to be sacked. 
The team's drab performance in Europe followed a disappointing 3-1 away loss to Levante in LaLiga, which was the team's third league defeat of the 2019/20 season.
Wenger, who is yet to return to the game as a manager after leaving Arsenal in 2018, believes Barcelona have lost their fluidity and charm, and suggesed there is too much dependence on captain Messi.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
"(Despite being) leaders of La Liga and their Champions League group... they are playing like a team in crisis, because the play is too slow, without dynamism, and very individualistic in the final meters," he said, according to Sport.
"When they lose the ball, they could concede a goal on the counter because they aren't closing down the space for the opponent.
"Barcelona are an interesting case because they have a history of brilliant collective team play and then they also had Leo Messi, who made the difference.
"Today, it seems they play expecting something from Messi. Before the music was beautiful, of a fantastic team waiting for Messi to appear.
"Today, they have lost their charisma and you have to ask how much the last two Champions League failures have affected them. From outside, it seems they've lost their charisma."

        
          Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?
        
      
Barca have won nine of their 15 matches in all competitions this season so far, drawing three and losing three.
