
# U.K. Halts Fracking in England, Citing Quake Concerns

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:08:01+00:00**

Author: **Elian Peltier**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/02/world/europe/uk-fracking.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson once hailed fracking as “glorious news for humanity,” and said the British government should “leave no stone unturned, or unfracked.”
But in a major U-turn, Mr. Johnson’s government announced on Saturday that it would temporarily halt fracking in the only active site in Britain, in northwestern England. The move came after a government agency, the Oil and Gas Authority, concluded this past week that it could not rule out “unacceptable” consequences for people living near fracking sites, including pollution risks and earthquake-related damage.
It was a victory for environmental groups, and might deprive opposition parties of a potentially powerful campaign issue in a general election just weeks away.
Jonathan Bartley, a leader of the Green Party, described the move as “very, very welcome.” But he told the BBC that the group wanted an absolute commitment from the government to ban the practice outright.
On Twitter, his co-leader, Sian Berry, wrote: “Banning fracking is for life, not just for Christmas.”
The leader of the opposition Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn, tweeted on Saturday that the government moratorium was only a “temporary pause” and “an election stunt to try and win a few votes.” His party would ban fracking permanently, he said.
Fracking, also known as hydraulic fracturing, involves injecting water, sand and chemicals at high pressure to fracture shale rock and recover natural gas from it. The practice has proved controversial and carries potential environmental and community costs.
In the Netherlands, hundreds of earthquakes linked to gas extraction have damaged thousands of homes and buildings. France and Germany have banned fracking, and Scotland and Wales have long had their own moratoriums on the technique.
The extracting technique is a major source of oil and gas revenues in the United States, Canada and Argentina. It has been bitterly opposed by environmental activists and local groups in Britain, where a series of earthquakes, including one in August, have hit the only active fracking site in the country, near the seaside town Blackpool.
Britain’s business and energy secretary, Andrea Leadsom, said on Saturday that shale gas had “huge potential” but that its exploration should be “carried out safely.”
“After reviewing the O.G.A.’s report into recent seismic activity at Preston New Road, it is clear that we cannot rule out future unacceptable impacts on the local community,” Ms. Leadsom said in a statement.
Activities at the site near Blackpool, managed by the shale gas group Cuadrilla Resources, were suspended after the Aug. 26 earthquake, which measured 2.9 on the Richter scale.
In May 2011, shale gas drilling was suspended at the Blackpool site after small earthquakes were documented by the British Geological Survey. Last year, Cuadrilla halted fracking after a tremor measuring 0.8 magnitude was recorded.
The company had no immediate reaction to the government’s moratorium on Saturday.
Fracking has been views as a potentially toxic issue for the governing Conservative Party. Unlike in the United States, where shale gas can be extracted in remote areas, many potential fracking sites in densely populated Britain have been near residential areas, where residents have often angrily opposed it.
According to the newspaper The Yorkshire Post, an event at the Conservative Party conference in September discussed the potential for fracking to affect up to 200 electoral districts, 40 of them marginal.
Protesters have camped for years near the Preston Road site and have fought the company in court. Three protesters were jailed in September 2018 for blocking the site and climbing on trucks there, and protesters once kept 24-hour vigils to monitor Cuadrilla’s activity.
“To contaminate a major food-growing area for a little bit of gas is insane,” a retired university professor, Celia Briar, told The New York Times in 2018.
Governments in Britain, which has long valued its oil industry, have supported shale exploration for the major revenues the technique could bring. Yet, a government spending watchdog found last month that the government had invested 32 million pounds, or $41 million, in fracking activities since 2011, with little result so far.
The government said the new moratorium would be put in place with immediate effect and continue until “compelling new evidence” had shown that fracking did not put local populations at risk.

        Continue reading the main story
      
