
# Microsoft announces new all-in-one Office Mobile app for Android

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:04:35+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/microsoft-announces-new-office-mobile-app-android-and-ios?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Windows Central
      
Microsoft is building a brand new Office app for Android and iOS users that's very similar to the Office app that comes bundled with Windows 10 today. It's a single entry point into the Office ecosystem, allowing you to open Word, PowerPoint, or Excel documents straight through the app without having to install each app individually. It's a much cleaner way of having Office installed on your phone.
The Office Mobile app has been around for quite some time on Samsung devices, but Microsoft is now extending support for the app to other Android devices, in addition to iOS as well. Jared Spataro, Corporate Vice President for Microsoft 365, says the following:
Android users can head to this link to get started with the app, and iOS users can sign up for a TestFlight preview now.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        Facebook New Face Facebook's new corporate logo is as boring as they come Facebook has announced a new corporate logo design, as well as a corporate initiative to include the new logo on all of its major app and service properties.
      

        TikTok Ring Ring The company that owns TikTok created a smartphone for China ByteDance, the company that owns the social network service TikTok, has released a smartphone for the Chinese market with a TikTok lock screen feature.
      

        Speaker optional Nest Wifi now available, here are your buying options Google’s second-generation wireless home router goes by a new name, Nest Wifi, and its range extender now features a built-in Google Assistant speaker. The single and two-pack options are now available, but which is best for you?
      

        Working smarter 12 must have apps for college students College is tough and there's nothing wrong with leaning on these apps for some help.
      
