
# Frequent Flier Programs Are Now More About Raking In Revenue Than Pleasing Top Customers

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dan Reed**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danielreed/2019/11/07/frequent-flier-programs-invented-to-drive-customer-loyalty-are-now--more-about-raking-in-more-revenue-than-pleasing-top-customers/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2806053393&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

If you want to be completely satisfied with the way your preferred airline treats you as a high mileage member of their frequent flier/customer loyalty program, you probably should avoid the Big Three U.S. carriers: American, Delta and United.That’s easier said than done since the Big Three dominate travel at most of the nation’s busiest airports. Still, that’s the most obvious – and maybe the snarkiest - conclusion to be drawn from the 2019 rankings of big U.S. airlines’ customer loyalty programs from the marketing research firm J.D. Power.
Top Ten lists are so common these days – and often so baseless or frivolous – that they’re often ignored. But when J.D. Power, the biggest name in customer satisfaction research, speaks, many still pay some attention. And now we’re being told that the big U.S. airlines have altered the way their frequent flier programs work so much that nearly half of all consumers don’t fully understand how to redeem their mileage points in ways that ways that yield the most satisfying results.
The J.D. Power 2019 Airline Loyalty Program Satisfaction Study reports that 45% of the members of U.S. carriers’ loyalty programs say their satisfaction with the airlines and those programs is significantly diminished by complexity encountered when they try to redeem their mileage points for free flights or other benefits.
"This is the third year in a row that we’ve seen airline loyalty program customer satisfaction hampered by a widespread lack of understanding of how to extract the most value from the programs," said Michael Taylor, who lead’s J.D. Power’s travel intelligence group. "Many airlines are evaluating the success of their loyalty programs based on dollars spent by travelers rather than on miles flown. That’s a significant shift away from rewarding frequent travelers and toward rewarding high spenders."
Thus, it shouldn’t be much of a surprise, in that context, that American AAdvantage and United’s Mileage Plus programs finished in a tie for last place in the J.D. Power rankings with matching scores of 764 on an indexed scale of 1,000 in terms of customer satisfaction with their loyalty programs. They were the only two carriers to score below the industry average of 789.  Delta’s SkyMiles program scored slightly better than it’s two biggest competitors, but it’s score of 791 was only two points better than the industry average.
At the very top of the industry group was JetBlue, whose much smaller TrueBlue loyalty program earned a customer satisfaction score of 821.
Southwest Airlines, which actually carriers more domestic passengers than any other airline (though it  offers only minimal international service) placed second in the category. Its Rapid Rewards loyalty program had an index score of 812. And Alaska Airlines’ Mileage Plan program was close behind with a loyalty program satisfaction index score of 810.
JetBlue was the only U.S. carrier ranked by J.D. Power as being “among the best,” while Southwest and Alaska were included in the “better than most” grouping. By ranking 2 points above the industry average Delta qualified as “about average.” But American and United fell into a grouping that J.D. Power disdainfully named “the rest.”
Apart from the horse race-style results of how each carrier’s frequent flier program ranked, there were some potentially meaningful insights that air travel consumers can glean from this year’s J.D. Power report. They include:
