
# Mason Holgate opens up on how Everton dressing room reacted to Tottenham draw

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:30:59+00:00**

Author: **David Maddock, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/david-maddock/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/mason-holgate-opens-up-how-20809953)

Mason Holgate says Everton’s shocked players were driven by the desire to fight back for Andre Gomes, after his devastating injury.
The Blues produced a rousing finale - backed by their passionate fans - to snatch a draw against Spurs when their popular midfielder suffered a compound fracture of the ankle.
They almost won the game, and afterwards, defender Holgate said they wanted to produce something special for the Portugal international.
“It shows what we are about as a team. We got together and I think it drove us on a bit more once we got going, trying to do it for Andre,” he said.
“(In the dressing room afterwards) It was really flat. It was like we had been beaten. He is all our friend and our team-mate so we are all gutted and wishing him the best.
“We are all thinking about him and wish him the best. It is hard when something like that happens to get going again, but we got together, we wanted to win for him, and we showed fight and went again.”
Holgate said the natural instinct of all players is to feel sick for the injured team-mate. They knew it was such a serious injury, he explained, and everyone was worried about the consequences.
But the England U21 international believes the response from the Everton squad now has to be to rally round, and try to lift Gomes when he completed his surgery on the snapped ankle.
“As a team we have all felt the pain he has felt and we are all feeling really bad and in a low place,” he added.
“But it is about us getting together when he comes back into the training ground and trying to make it as positive as possible for him.
“It's hard to cope with. I have been on the pitch for two, I saw James McCarthy's as well, and both were the same in that everything goes flat.
“You just have to get together and make a stand as a team but the game goes flat and you can feel the whole mood changes.”
