
# Matthew McConaughey celebrates his 50th birthday by joining Instagram – and we’re all for it!

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:00:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/matthew-mcconaughey-celebrates-his-50th-birthday-by-joining-instagram-and-were-all-for-it-20191105)

Cape Town - Step aside Jennifer Anniston, Instagram has a new A-lister in town.
To celebrate his 50th birthday, the American actor announced that he’d decided to follow in Jennifer Anniston’s footsteps and start an Instagram account, Metro reports.
In his first Instagram post, Matthew explains why he decided to open an account.
"When people come to my page, I want them to see me," the 50-year-old said in the video.
"Look, this is my first venture into sharing myself and my views with the world and I’m a little bit nervous about it because quite frankly, I know I want to have a monologue.
"I’m not quite sure I want to have the dialogue. But I know I have to have the dialogue, too. So I’m looking forward to it, I’m looking forward to it.

        SEE THE POST HERE: 
      
Matthew, who already has 613 000 followers, went on to say that he hopes his account provides some laughter for his followers.
"I’m looking forward to sharing who I am with you, to seeing if who I am translates, if what I want to share translates. If it tickles your funny bone, if it makes you think a second, if it makes your heart swell up a little bit, if it makes you take a quiet moment and go for a walk, let’s have some fun with it though," he said.
The Dallas Buyers Club actor follows the likes of Reese Witherspoon and talk show host Jimmy Fallon, Fox News reports.

        Sources: 
        
          Instagram
        
        , 
        
          Metro
        
        , 
        
          Fox News
        
      
