
# Trump Jr. distances Kentucky governor from Trump as Bevin refuses to concede election

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:59:50+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/trump-jr-distances-kentucky-governor-from-trump-as-bevin-refuses-to-concede-election)

Donald Trump Jr. distanced President Trump from Kentucky Republican Gov. Matt Bevin as Bevin refuses to concede Tuesday's gubernatorial race.
The incumbent governor ran for reelection against Kentucky's Democratic Attorney General Andy Beshear, who led by 4,658 votes with 100.0% of precincts reporting as of Tuesday night.
Despite Bevin not conceding to Beshear, Trump Jr. appeared on The Ingraham Angle after the election and attempted to distance the president from the loss. Bevin ran on a platform of being a Trump ally and the president hosted a "Make America Great Again" rally in Lexington, Kentucky, on Monday, a move meant to spur Republican voter turnout.
“Don, Bevin was the most unpopular governor in the country, was once down 20 points, and now it’s still too close to call, 49% versus 49%,” Ingraham stated. “He ran against a family that is legendary, the Beshear family, of course, in Kentucky. So what is your response?”
“It’s the soundbites that we’re so used to, any opportunity to try to take a swipe,” Trump Jr. replied. “I like Matt Bevin, he’s been a friend of mine, he's a good guy, but he's picked a lot of battles, he’s teed off on a lot of people in Kentucky, that’s not always popular. We understand how that works.”
