
# Probationary cop fired on charges of sexual harassment

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Praveen Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/probationary-cop-fired-on-charges-of-sexual-harassment/articleshow/71871356.cms)

A probationary police constable has been dismissed from service for sexually harassing and misbehaving with a woman complainant. There were also complaints against him for disrespecting his seniors. The woman who was repeatedly harassed by CJ Nagaraju approached senior officials and brought the matter to their notice. Nagaraju is also alleged to have been creating nuisance at the police residential quarters. Nagaraju was serving at a police station attached to the Ramanagara district. The woman had come to the police station to file a complaint and Nagaraju allegedly collected her mobile phone number and started sexually harassing by sending her messages. The woman is said to have been mentally harassed by the dismissed constable. “Nagaraju, who is still a probationary police constable, has been dismissed from service following complaints against him. The order has been passed just few days back,” Anoop A Shetty, Superintendent of Police, Ramanagara, told Mirror. Under the pretext of enquiring her about the case, Nagaraju is alleged to have started sexually harassing her. The woman is said to have ignored it for sometime but brought it to the notice of senior officials as the harassment continued. Senior police officers then enquired about the harassment and found it to be true. Nagaraju was appointed as a civil police constable on June 11, 2018. He was still under the mandatory two-year probationary period. After undergoing his training at a police training school in the state, he was sent to the Ramanagara district police. He is also alleged to have been disobeying the orders given by senior officers. There were complaints against him for misbehaving with the women members of the police families staying at the police quarters. The officers had also given him multiple warning to mend his behaviour. Action has been taken against him under the rules of Karnataka Civil Services (Probation) rules of 1977.
