
# Deaths and funeral announcements made in Plymouth this week

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rom Preston-Ellis**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/deaths-funeral-announcements-made-plymouth-3494061)

Touching messages have been left this week to remember loved ones who have recently passed away.
Dozens of loved ones are remembered in this week's list of funeral notices and family announcements in Plymouth.
Each and every post is made by a relative or loved-one and published in our sister print title The Herald, as well as online.
At the saddest of times, letting neighbours, relatives and friends who may have lost touch know about a loss can be a thing of comfort.
And at the happiest of times, when a child is born, celebrating that new life can bring joy to so many.
Birthdays are also marked, along with anniversaries and memorials to those who died many years ago.
To see the full list of family announcements, visit   this section of the Plymouth Live website   where you can search by name, date and location. You can also post your own announcements and notices there.
Here are is a list of all those to appear in Plymouth in the last week.

        Edith Joan Ash
      
Passed peacefully away at home on October 23 2019, aged 97. Forever loved and missed. The funeral service at Church of Our Lady Of The Angels, Bishop's Close, New Road, Saltash, on Wednesday 6th November 2019, at 11.30am.

        Christopher Anthony Clemow
      
Unexpectedly on October 20th 2019, aged 74 years of Bodmin, formerly of Plymouth. Loving husband of Frances and sadly missed by his friends. Funeral service at Glynn Valley Crematorium on Thursday November 7th at 12.30 pm. Donations if desired please to Guide Dogs by retiring collection or c/o Bodmin Funeral Services, Old Wall Lodge, Castle Canyke Road, PL31 1DU.

        Jean Edwards
      
Jean Edwards Née Mortimore Passed away peacefully on 26th October 2019 at Vicarage Residential Home, aged 96 years. Reunited with her husband Fred. Loving mum of Susan & Robert and Lynne & Robert, proud gran of Allison, Caroline, Stephanie, Damien, Benjamin and their partners, great-gran of Jake, Louis & Matthew. The funeral service will be held at Weston Mill Crematorium on Monday 11th November at 1.15pm. Family flowers only please, donations if desired made payable to British Heart Foundation may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson Crownhill, PL6 5DY Tel: 01752 767676.

        Winifred Jane Harman
      
On Saturday 26th October 2019 at St. Luke's Hospice, Jane, aged 70 years of Plympton. Wife of Michael, mother of Stephen and Andrew, grandmother of Thomas. Requiem Eucharist at St. Werburgh's Church, Wembury on Thursday 7th November at 12.00 noon and afterwards at Wembury War Memorial Village Hall. Bright clothing is requested in preference to black. Family flowers only please, donations if desired made payable to St. Luke's Hospice Plymouth or Wembury PCC (for the work of the Church) may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson Plympton, PL7 1QW Tel: 01752 343848

        David Jenn
      
on 18th October 2019 at Consort Care Home, aged 75 years. Loved and sadly missed by all his family. Funeral on Friday 8th October Service at Efford Crematorium at 2.45pm. No flowers by request, donations if desired made payable to Bloodwise may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson St Judes, PL4 8PJ Tel: 01752 665438

        Eric Johns
      
Known as Mr Devonport Passed away on Thursday October 3rd 2019 aged 93 years. Loved Husband of Beryl (deceased) Dad of loved Son Haydn. Funeral service to be held at Stoke Dameral Church on Friday November 8th 2019 at 10.30am. All donations to be made to the Radiotherapy Department. Information given on the day of funeral. The day Thou Gavest Lord has Ended.

        Mary Pretoria Manley
      

         
      
Devoted wife of the late David Manley. Beloved mum, grandma and great grandma will be greatly missed. Service to be held at Weston Mill on the 8th November 11:30am. Coloured scarves and ties to remember her by. Family flowers only. 3rd May 1935 - 12th October 2019.

        Pamela McDonald
      
On 24th October 2019, peacefully at St Luke's Hospice, Pamela passed away after a long battle with cancer. Darling beloved wife of Leonard (Mc) and adored by all her friends. Funeral service will be held at Efford Crematorium on Friday 8th November at 10.45am. Family flowers only, please. All enquiries to Walter C. Parson Crownhill, PL6 5DY Tel: 01752 767676
My dearest friend of all time, you do not go alone, for part of me goes with you, as you make your journey home. Life long friend, Wendy xx
A dear friend, will be greatly missed. God bless. Maur, Mike and Family xxx

        Alan Richards
      
Sadly passed away on the 26th September at Derriford Hospital. Funeral to be held at St Michael's Church, on Albert Road, on 11th November at 1pm. Donations by retiring collection to The Royal British Legion. Any enquiries to Plymouth & District Funeral Services, Tel. 01752 407100

        Jacqueline Sheikh
      
In loving memory of a dear sister-in-law to John sister (deceased) Elaine and Aunty to Dean, Lee, Brian & Family R.I.P XXX

        Stewart William Weymouth
      
Born 25/04/1943, died 25/10/2019, aged 76. Sons Paul, Mark, Andrew and Stephen, grandchildren, Chloé, Adam, Jack, Christopher, Emma, Molly and great-grandchild Meliá. xxxxxxxxxxx Funeral service to be held at Efford Crematorium, on Thursday 7th November at 9:15am. Donations if desired to St Luke's.

        Joan Amy Loveday Frude
      
Peacefully on 22nd October, aged 99 years at Sunnymead Nursing Home, among loving, caring staff and family. Loving Wife of Albert (Deceased). Loving Mum to Gordon (Deceased) and Madge, George and Anne, John and Jan. Loving Nan to all the Grandchildren, Great Grandchildren and Great Great Grandchildren. Will never be forgotten, always in our hearts. Funeral Service will be held at Weston Mill Crematorium on Wednesday 20th November 2019 at 11.30am. Flowers welcome. Enquires to, Co op Funeralcare, Morshead Road, Crownhill, Plymouth, PL6 5AJ. Tel: 01752 303830.

        Eileen Mary Hunt
      

         
      
Peacefully on 17th October 2019, aged 94 years. Reunited with her beloved husband Gerald and son Francis. Loving mother to Anne & Geraldine and their husbands Tony & Stuart. Much loved grandmother to Clare, Theresa, Paul, Maria & Rebecca and loving great grandmother to their children. A Requiem Mass will be held at St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church, Crownhill on Friday 8th November at 1.30pm. Family flowers only please, donations if desired made payable to R.N.L.I. (Plymouth) may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson Crownhill, PL6 5DY Tel: 01752 767676

        David John Jewell
      
Passed away 21st October 2019, aged 75 years. Beloved husband to Maureen, loving father, step father, grandad and great-grandad. You're up in the sky now darling, painting in the clouds and talking to the birds. You have been an angel on Earth, and now you are an angel in Heaven. Loves you lots, Maureen xxxxxx Funeral service to be held at Weston Mill Crematorium on 7th November at 1:15pm. No dress code. No flowers please. Donations for Cancer Research UK.

        Anita Elizabeth Nicholls
      
Passed away peacefully on Saturday, 26th October 2019 aged 93 at Derriford Hospital. Loving wife of John (deceased), fantastic mum to Philip (Pip) (deceased) and Christopher (Topper), mother-in-law to Jane, special grandmother to precious Darryn (deceased), Amanda and Stuart, Sarah and Mark, Gemma and Dan and Charlie, wonderful great-gran to Eden, Seth, Aaliyah and Morgan Rose. Sadly missed by her friends. Funeral service to be held on Friday, 8th November at Efford Crematorium, commencing at 12.15pm. Family flowers only, donations in memory of Anita to the Plymouth & District Leukaemia Fund. Enquiries to Wyatt Brothers 5-7 Durnford Street Plymouth PL1 3QJ Tel: 01752 600437.

        Dennis Saunders
      
Passed away on 27th October. Brother of Trevor, brother-in-law to Beverley. Sadly missed. Will always be in our thoughts.

        Allan Brian Spencer
      
Passed away suddenly on the 17th of October 2019. Dearly loved husband to Barbara and cherished father to Elizabeth and Brian. The funeral service will be held at Efford Crematorium on Tuesday 5th November at 1.15pm. Family flowers only please. Donations can be made by retiring collection in aid of Guide Dogs for the Blind. All enquiries to - Co-op Funeralcare 61 Exeter Street Plymouth PL4 0AH 01752 303800

        Rose Veal
      
Passed away peacefully on Tuesday 22nd October 2019 at Colebrook Manor Nursing Home, aged 96 years. Loving mother of Roger (deceased), Julian (deceased) and Simon, mother-in-law to Jane. There will be a short reflection of Vera's life presented by Marion Kemp, Humanist Speaker on Wednesday 13th November 11:30 at the address below. We welcome all who knew Vera. She has requested colourful attire and no flowers, please. Donations to RNIB please. Co-op Funeralcare, Glen Road, Plympton, PL7 2DE Tel: 01752 208059So they can share memories, write messages, add photos & candles

        Audrey Billing
      
Passed away peacefully at Derriford Hospital on 22nd October 2019, aged 79 years. Beloved wife of David. Much loved mum of Stephen and Darren. She'll be forever missed by all her family and friends. The funeral service will be held at Weston Mill Crematorium on Wednesday 6th November at 12.15pm. Family flowers only please, donations if desired made payable to either Cancer Research UK or St. Luke's Hospice may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson Crownhill, PL6 5DY Tel: 01752 767676

        George John Dunn
      
Passed away peacefully at home on Friday 25th October aged 85 years. Loving husband to Nancy, father to Paul, Gary & partner Jean. He will be dearly missed by all the family. Funeral service to take place at Weston Mill Crematorium on Thursday 7th November at 2:45pm. Family flowers only please, donations can be made by retiring collection to St Luke's Hospice. All enquiries to Co-op Funeralcare, 152 Albert Road, Devonport, Plymouth, PL2 1AQ. Tel: 01752 565102.

        John Fulton
      
Peacefully in Plymouth, aged 77 years. Formerly of Newmilns. A light went out when Doc passed away. Father, grandfather, great-grandfather, brother and uncle. A friend to many, never forgotten.

        Jeffrey David Roden
      
Passed away in ND Hospice on 25th October 2019, aged 73 years. Much loved by wife Wendy, daughters Lynsey and Emma, and grandchildren Seumas and Sophie, and beloved brother. Donations if desired, to RAF Benevolent Fund, W1B 1AR.

        John 'Seth' Weaver
      

         
      
The legend that was our Dad died on 21st October. He will be desperately missed by his devoted daughters, his heartbroken grandchildren and great grandbabies. We say farewell and adieu in The Minster Church of St Andrew at 12 noon on Wednesday 6th November and we will celebrate him after at The Dolphin on the Barbican. Either flowers or donations if desired made payable to R.N.L.I. or Blesma may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson St Judes, PL4 8PJ Tel: 01752 665438

        David Bickell
      
 Died at St Luke's Hospice on 20th October 2019, aged 72 years. Much loved husband, brother, father and grandfather. A graveside service will be held at Buckland Monachorum Cemetery on Tuesday 5th November at 11.00am. Family flowers only please. Donations, if desired, made payable to St Luke's Hospice may be left online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson Crownhill, PL6 5DY Tel: 01752 767676

        Ronald William Preston
      
Passed away peacefully on 5th October 2019 at Derriford Hospital aged 84 years. Devoted Husband to Pamela (deceased). Loving Dad to Alison (Peg) and Jacky. Father-in-law to Edwin and Dave. Beloved Grampy and great Grampy to all his Grandchildren. Brother to Val, Ann and Alec. But nothing is the same We have to hide our heartache When someone speaks your name Sad are the hearts that love you Silent are the tears that fall Living without you is the hardest part of all You did so many things for us Your heart was so true and kind And when we needed someone We could always count on you The special years will not return When we are all together But with the love in our hearts You walk with us forever Funeral service will be held at St Mary's Church (Plympton) on 1st November 2019 at 10.30am. Family flowers only please, donations, if desired, made payable to St Luke's Hospice or Heartswell and maybe left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com, or sent to Walter C Parson, Crownhill PL6 5DY
The WM, Officers & Brethren of the St Aubyn Lodge No 954 mourn the passing of our esteemed W.Bro RW Preston PAGDC, The WM, Officers & Brethren of St Aubyn Mark Master Masons Lodge No 64 also mourn the passing of W.Bro RW Preston PGJD The WCN, Officers & Brethren of St Aubyn Royal Ark Mariners Lodge No 64 also mourn the passing of W.Bro RW Preston RAMGR A true Freemason in every sense, a Mentor to some, a great Friend to many, a Brother to all R.I.P.

        George Wilkinson
      
Died peacefully Thursday 24th October at home, dearest brother of Harry (deceased), brother-in-law to Barbara and loving uncle to all his nieces and their families. He was always such fun and we will miss him greatly.

        Dulcie Mary Gardiner
      
Passed away peacefully at home on 15th October 2019, aged 84 years. Much loved Wife to Pat (deceased), loving Mum to Julie, Des and Nicola, Mum-in-Law to Kev, Bev and David, and darling Granny to Kieran, David, Michelle, Joe, Isabel and Euan. Funeral on Monday 4th November. Service at Methodist Central Hall at 1.00pm. Thence Efford Crematorium. No dress code has been requested. Family flowers only please, donations if desired made payable to Dementia UK may be left as a retiring collection, online at wcpltd.com or sent to Walter C. Parson St Judes, PL4 8PJ Tel: 01752 665438

        Joan Lang
      
Passed away peacefully on Friday 18th October, after a brave fight borne with dignity and humour. Devoted Wife of the late Stan and adored Mum to Pat, Fran and Sue and Mum in law to Gordon, Tom and Russ. Fantastic Nan to her 6 Grandchildren and 11 Great Grandchildren. Cherished Sister in law and "Aunty Meg" to the rest of her family. Forever in our hearts and minds, still bringing smiles and laughter through wonderful memories. The funeral service will be held at Efford Crematorium, on Monday 4th November, at 10:00am. Please wear whatever colour you wish and wear a flower too. Flowers from immediate family only please. Donations, if desired, may be made payable to St Luke's Hospice, by way of retiring collection at the service. All enquiries to - Co-op Funeralcare 61 Exeter Street Plymouth PL4 0AH 01752 303800
Our dear Meg, reunited with her beloved Stanley, together forever. Love you. God bless. Judy, Arthur and Family xxx
Dear sister-in-law of Jenny and Ron and aunty to Steve, Nick and Sue, Karen and Jeff, Jerry and Debbie and families. Love you lots Meg.

        Vera Ann Hazeldene
      
Our dear mum passed away on Friday 18th October 2019, aged 94 years. She will be sadly missed by all. From devoted sons Des, Mike, Geoff and wives, grandchildren, great grandchildren and all the family. Funeral service will be held at Efford Cemetery Chapel on 11th November at 2pm followed by graveside burial. Donations via retiring collection will benefit Macmillan Nurses. All enquiries to; Co-op Funeralcare Crownhill, PL6 5AJ

        Jennifer Ellen Ferris
      
Peacefully passed away on 20th October 2019, aged 81 years. Dearest Mum to Ian and Lee (deceased). Mother in law to Julie. Loving Nan to Naomi and Ryan. Will be sadly missed by all her family and friends. Funeral service to be held at Weston Mill Crematorium on 4th November at 2pm. Donations can be made by retiring collection for St Luke's Hospice. Co-op Funeralcare 12-14 Morshead Road Crownhill, Plymouth, PL6 5AJ. Tel. 01752 303830

        Sheila Maureen Gilbard
      
Passed peacefully at Derriford hospital on 17th October. Much and loved and will be greatly missed by all her family. A celebration of her life will be held at the Fennamore Room, Saltram House on Friday 1st November at 11.00 am. Donations if desired to St. Luke's Hospice. Enquiries to James Brothers Funeral Directors. Leeds House, Colebrook Road, Plympton, PL7 4AA Tel: 01752 881419

        Peter Langman
      
Peacefully on 16th October 2019 at Derriford Hospital aged 91 years. Beloved husband of Shirley, dearly loved dad of Julie and Andrea and a dear brother of Dorrie (deceased) Jean and Neil. Funeral service at St Andrews Church, Calstock on Monday 4th November at 11.00am, followed by burial. No flowers by request please, donations in his memory to Talons Owltimate Encounters CIC or Cornwall Air Ambulance by retiring collection. All enquiries to C P Coombe Funeral Directors Callington. Tel:01579 383349

        Barbara Margaret Smithson nee George
      
On Saturday 19th October, 2019 at Elburton Heights Care Home aged 91 years. Loving wife of Ken (deceased), dear sister of Muriel (deceased) and Doreen (deceased). Barbara was much loved by nephew David and wife Mandy, and niece Allison and husband Gary (South Africa) and their families. Funeral service will be held at Efford Crematorium on Thursday, 7th November at 12:15pm. Family flowers only. Donations for Elburton Heights Care Home Residents Fund, may be left by retiring collection as we leave the chapel. All other enquiries to: Co-op Funeralcare 61 Exeter Street Plymouth PL4 0AH Tel. 01752 308300.
On October 19th, dearest Aunty Barbara to Michael, Loretta, Leanne, Daniel, Reece, Emma and their families. Will be sadly missed.

        Denise Lazarus
      
Your memory is our keepsake with which we'll never part, God has you in His keeping and we have you in our hearts. Your loving Son's Shane, Leroy, Lil and families xxxxx
Can't believe it's been one year since we lost you nan. It has not been the same without you and not a day goes by that we don't think of you. Although you're gone in person, you're still with us in spirit. You weren't just our nan, you were like a mum to us. We will always remember the good times with you and your memory will live on. You're always in our hearts, never to be forgotten until we are reunited again. Love and miss you so much. From your loving Grandchildren Gemma, Sophie, Carrie, Roxy, Harper and Freddie xxxxxx

        William Chislett
      
Passed away October 31st, 1973. Devoted husband, father and grandpa. Loved and remembered every day.

        Christine Clarkson
      
A year has passed we miss you everyday always in our thoughts xxx Keith Karen Tony Sam Leah and family xxx

        Robert Whitell
      
Darling Bob, It's another year gone by and I miss you so much. Don't forget we'll meet again. You are the wind beneath my wings. With all my love Sylvia xx

        Fred Wilcox
      
Four years ago we said our goodbyes, you are missed every day. Love you forever. Joyce x Gone but never forgotten. God Bless. Linda, Richard and family, Dawn, Mark and family and Alan & Angie xxx

        Margaret Giles
      
Three years have passed and still we weep For the one we loved but could not keep. Sad is my heart that loved you, silent tears do fall, living our life without you is the hardest part of all. But we will remember our whole life through The way you looked when I last saw you. Miss you always. Love Paul and Kat, Jem and Shaun, Dom and Terri and Great-grandaughter Ava xxxx
A wonderful Nan with a heart of gold, The memory of you will never grow old. Love you always, Sarah, Claire, Shanna, Chelsea and Chloe xxxx Remembering you Mum, is easy, I do it every day. Missing you is heartache that never goes away. Love you always, Carol, Cliff, David and Tracey xxxx

        Jean Telfer
      
It broke my heart to lose you mum, but you didn't go alone. For a part of me went with you the day God called you home. Missed beyond words. Love Ann xxx No words can describe dear mum in any kind of way, how much you're loved and sadly missed, today and every day. Missed always. Love Trevor and Family xxx

        Beryl Dulling
      
This day is remembered and silently kept, no need for words we will never forget. In loving memory of Beryl.- Peter, Sarah, Jo and Mark.

        Michael Slee
      
28th October 8 years and it feels like yesterday, So loved and missed. Wife Pat, Scott, Dale and all the family

        Paul Ian Hudson
      
19/01/1965 - 27/10/1995 Treasured memories of a wonderful son that will remain forever in our thoughts. Remembered always, forgotten never. Together with brother, John. All our love, Mum, Dad and all the Family xxx

        Patricia Ivey
      
In memory of my loving wife Pat. Four seasons have passed, each one brings it's own emotion. Not a day has passed where you are not in our thoughts. From smiles to tears, you taught us it's better to smile and each heart beat is filled with love. Forever in our life, now and forever. Your loving Husband Mike, Son John and Daughter Karen and family xxx

        Denise Easton Prowse
      
Happy 60th Birthday Dee. Love,Hugs & Kisses From all the family Loves you x

        Glyn Hobbs
      
Glyn, no words we write will ever say, how much we love and miss you every single day. We would give the world if we could sing Happy 56th Birthday to you today. Treasured memories of our wonderful son. Give Dad our love and kisses. Love Mum and All Your Loving Family. God Bless RIP xxxx
