
# Larkhall teen represented her hometown in Miss Junior Teen Great Britain final

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shirley Bartynek, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/shirley-bartynek/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/larkhall-teen-represented-hometown-miss-20787840)

A Larkhall teen was delighted to represent her town in a national competition.
Nicole Baird headed to Blackpool last month to compete in the final of Miss Junior Teen Great Britain.
The 13-year-old was at the seaside town’s The Globe to compete against other youngsters for the title.
Miss Junior Teen Great Britain do not hold beauty contests, instead it is a competition celebrating teenagers, their achievements and their goals.
It is about empowering teens, having fun, making friends and incredible memories.
A spokesperson for the competition said: “We intend for the girls to make new friends and aim to make each and every contestant feel like a queen.
“Most importantly, we open the doors to fun and exciting, confidence-building opportunities for our finalists and winners.
“The Miss Teen Great Britain pageant empowers our finalists and teaches them to recognise their successes, and to celebrate them.”
Despite not winning, Nicole had an amazing time.
Her mum Angela explained: “She represented Larkhall with pride and, despite not winning, she loved the whole experience.
“She made friends and to be picked from thousands to reach the top 42 girls in Great Britain, in our eyes she is a winner.
“We are so proud of her achievements and would like to say thanks to everyone who has supported her.
“These include Larkhall Councillor Jackie Burns, Lesley Rundell from Larkhall Post Office and Harry Boyd of Fernaigair Church.
“We would like to thank her sponsor too, R&L Roofing and L’Perfection in Larkhall, who did her hair, and we would like to thank her high school, Larkhall Academy, who also supported her.”
