
# Inside the new sports clinic run by former Arsenal physios Gary and Colin Lewin

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:15:12+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/inside-new-sports-clinic-run-20787770)

It was an injury which shocked football.
On February 27, 2010, Aaron Ramsey suffered a sickening leg break at Stoke City.
Lesser players would have struggled to return to the top of the game but, nearly 10 years later, Wales midfielder Ramsey is thriving at Italian giants Juventus and is still thankful for the treatment and care he received from the Arsenal medics.
It is one of the reasons why Ramsey has chosen to be an investor in the Lewin Clinic, the sports injury centre set up by former Arsenal physios Gary and Colin.
Injuries are often a long road for footballers and the relationship, trust and dynamic between a player and his physio is at the heart of recovery. That is why the Lewins are so well known and have been so respected within the game.
Ramsey, who worked with Colin at Arsenal and Gary with the Great Britain squad at the 2012 Olympics, said: “People will know I had a serious leg injury in 2010, and while it isn’t something I like to dwell on I know how lucky I am to still be playing at this level.
“I put in a lot of hard work to get back to a competitive level, but without Colin, his team and the medical experts the outcome could have been different. I’ll always be hugely thankful to him.
“I worked with Colin at Arsenal for 10 years and always found his expertise and personal manner reassuring when injured or being helped to maintain fitness. I know so many of the boys relied on him hugely during their time at the club too.”
Gary was at Arsenal for 22 years. Having not made it as a goalkeeper, he went into physiotherapy. When Gary left to become England’s full-time physio in 2008, his younger cousin Colin stepped up to become lead physio with the Arsenal first team.
They are arguably football’s best known physios but are now going in a different direction as Colin left Arsenal last year while Gary, 55, also left the Football Association after a shake-up in 2016.
They have now joined forces to launch their own sports injury clinic.
The Arsenal connections still remain as Arsene Wenger, former vice-chairman David Dein and negotiator Dick Law helped them set up their business while Ramsey and Petr Cech are investors.
Gary said: “We want people to come in, see us and then be able to stay on the one pathway to get back into sport. People don’t want to go back and forth from the doctor, then to another physio and so on. They want one solution.”
“It could be from weekend warriors all the way up to elite athletes from all sports,” said Colin. “The NHS is not built for sports injuries. A week will not go by where an ex-player doesn’t ring you for advice or even for a name of a specialist.”
It was undoubtedly a difficult job working at Arsenal as, with the rise of social media, it is hard to think of another club where the interest in groin strains was quite so intense.
And after such a long involvement with the Gunners, it was difficult for Colin and Gary when they stepped away.
“My first few months on a Saturday was just horrible. I remember watching my first Arsenal game of the new season that I wasn’t involved in,” said Colin.
“I was in Portugal, they were playing Man City and then Chelsea . I watched both games in a corner, in a little bar on my own and hated every minute of it. It took ages to get used to waking up on a Saturday and thinking I’m not in a hotel, not doing a game.”
After dealing with footballers over a 40-year period, both are well placed to answer critics who claim the game has now ‘gone soft’.
“It was not as intense, definitely not as quick and the players were not as athletic. You often hear old players say: ‘we had steak and chips, didn’t do us any harm.’ But so did the other players,” said Gary. “Players back then were robust whereas now they’re athletic.”
Colin added: “It was a world of difference between when Gary was in charge in 1987, winning the Littlewoods Cup with George Graham, to 30 years later and Arsenal winning the FA Cup under Arsene Wenger.
“I think the biggest change would be the nationality and culture of the players. In 1987, it was all British, not one foreign player. Compared to 2017, there were five British when we beat Chelsea that day. The culture and the nationality was so different.”
Website: https://www.lewinclinic.co.uk
