
# Virgin West Coast train managers to strike over sacking row

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:30:44+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Russell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jennifer-russell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/virgin-west-coast-train-managers-20788216)

Train managers on Virgin West Coast are to stage a 24-hour strike in a dispute over the dismissal of a colleague.
Members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union will walk out on November 19, following weeks of banning overtime.
Virgin West Coast trains run from Scotland to England, stopping in both Glasgow and Edinburgh.
RMT general secretary Mick Cash said: "I urge all Virgin West Coast members to continue their magnificent solidarity and support for our colleague who has been treated so disgracefully.
"We cannot allow this appalling situation to continue and our member must be reinstated.
 
"It is time for the company to stop their aggressive and bullying tactics and sit down with us and right this wrong which has angered staff across the West Coast franchise."
RMT has said the ' shocking treatment and dismissal of a colleague' has led to the 24 hour strike.   RMT said: "It is clear that Virgin West Coast have acted in an entirely arrogant and belligerent manner and we will not allow this to continue.
"The unions National Executive Committee has considered this matter again and, having taken on board the views of local representatives, has decided to suspend the current overtime and rest day ban and call strike action as below.
The strike will commence from midnight on Tuesday, November 19.
