
# Do you still root and mod your Android phones?

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:44:54+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/do-you-still-root-and-mod-your-android-phones?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
When you think about Android phones, what comes to mind? Maybe it's how customizable the user experience is right out of the box, or perhaps the endless options of devices you have to choose from thanks to the platform's open-source nature.
A few short years ago, one of the big draws to Android was the rooting/modding community. Between custom ROMs and things like the Xposed Framework, there were a lot of things you could do by taking some time to tinker with your phone.
That big appeal to rooting and modding seems to have died down a bit lately, and it's gotten some of our AC forum members talking about it. Here's what they have to say.
What about you? Do you still root and mod your Android phones?

        Join the conversation in the forums!
      

        One eternity later Hey Google — why hasn't my Pixel 4 gotten the November security patch? The Pixel 4 is Google's latest flagship smartphone, so why is it still stuck on the October security patch?
      

        🐠🐡🐟🦈 Something fishy's going on: How Google names in-development Pixels Did you know your Pixel phone was named after a fish? Check out the faces behind the names for Google's Pixel line.
      

        Smarter Smart Screens You no longer have to ask your Google Smart Display when a photo was taken Google Photos on smart displays now shows the date and the length of time since a photo was taken. Huzzah!
      

        the best The Xperia 1 is our favorite phone for shooting video If video recording is your thing, then look no further than the Sony Xperia 1 — it offers a large screen, three great cameras, and extremely robust manual video controls.
      
