
# Inside Shirley Ballas' breast surgery with before and after pics and 'disturbing' discovery

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:10:32+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/inside-shirley-ballas-breast-surgery-20807188)

Shirley Ballas has given an intimate insight into her breast implant removal surgery.
The Strictly Come Dancing star, 58, had a gruelling four-hour operation to go from a DD back to her natural A cup.
On today's Lorraine, Shirley revealed she had the surgery because of cancer fears and admitted she got the implants due to her low self-esteem.
Brave Shirley let the cameras into her home as she got ready beforehand, while she phoned her son in the taxi and after the operation.
The much-loved dancer told Lorraine viewers she finally has her confidence back and that big boobs won't make someone love you.
Explaining why she got her implants removed, Shirley said: "I went to get a mammogram and one of the nurses flippantly said to me we can’t really see behind the back of these implants.
"I just decided for health reasons for me i was going to take them out.
"My mother's elder sister got cancer, then my mother got cancer, then as we speak my mother’s sister is in hospital in critical but stable condition after an operation for cancer."
Shirley was supported by her boyfriend Danny Taylor, 46, who was seen helping his partner pack her bags.
The Strictly star praised Danny, who she met during a panto last year, for giving her confidence back.
While looking at a photo when she first had her DD implants, Shirley said: "Now I’m looking back at this picture saying where was your mind. What possessed you to do it?
"I will never blame dancing for the way I feel but there were people in dancing who made me feel uncomfortable. I had low self-esteem. I look back now and think what was there to worry about really."
Nervous Shirley admitted she had butterflies in her stomach on the way to the hospital with Danny.
After having the operation, Shirley said: "The moment I came round after the surgery and Danny was there, it's a feeling of relief. To see him smiling, holding my hand, the fact he stayed for the whole surgery and willing me on was really sweet.
"When I had a look in the mirror I felt my old self. It was a little bit more me. It was me back. My own body. And I’m comfortable with it. I got quite emotional.
"There are some reasons why people have to have implants. If it's because someone has made you feel not good about yourself and you think your breasts are rather small and people will love you with voluptuous boobies...I can tell you for sure that's not the case.
"No breast implant will make somebody love you if you can’t love you. You have to love yourself first."
Back in the Lorraine studio, Shirley admitted it had been "an emotional week" but she was determined to return for Saturday night's Strictly live show.
Shirley said: "When I saw what Dr Waterhouse took out of my chest, the implants and the capsule around it. What grows around the implant.
"I would never have done it. I had no clue. I did not do enough research. To anyone thinking about doing it, it's not how it seems to be.
"That's what made the operation so long. Dr Waterhouse was so thorough. He wanted to make sure he got every ounce of the capsule.
"When I saw the photos it really was quite disturbing what grows inside your chest."
Danny said it was important Shirley made the decision herself and that there is no price on your health.
He added: "I think with something like this it may go undetected with the implants - that's terrifying.
"In a hypothetical situation in a year's time they could find something."

        *Lorraine airs weekdays on ITV at 8.30am
      
