
# Black Friday Comes Early at Tesco Mobile With Exclusive Weekly Deals

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:30:11+00:00**

Author: **Shabana Arif**

Original: [Gizmodo UK](https://www.gizmodo.co.uk/2019/11/tesco-mobile-black-friday-deals/)

Throughout November, you can find weekly deals at Tesco Mobile on Samsung, Huawei, and Apple phones.
Black Friday isn't until the end of the month (ish) but that's not going to stop retailers from rolling out deals as early as possible to tempt you into parting ways with your paycheck already. Tesco Mobile is getting its foot in the door by offering a series of one-week exclusive deals all month long, but it's kicking off the festivities with the Samsung S10 for £29.99 a month, down from £35.99, with 2GB of data, 5000 minutes and 5,000 texts. If that tickles your fancy, you have until December 1 to nab it at that price.
The first week of deals includes discounts on three handsets over the course of a 36-month contract:
There's also a super early Christmas deal on the Nokia 2.2 which sees the £100 handset on offer for just £8 a month with 500MB of data, 250 minutes and 5000 texts. Tesco is even throwing in a free Juice Marshmallow Bluetooth speaker which usually retails for £15. The offer is hanging around until December 1.
If you're all set for a handset, there's always the SIM only double data Black Friday bundles; for £20 a month you can get 16GB of data (instead of 8GB), 500 minutes and 5000 texts.
Keep an eye out for more Black Friday deals right here.

        Feature image credit: Tesco Mobile
      
