
# The Popular Sony WH-CH700N Wireless Headphones Just Hit Its Lowest Price Ever

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:42:46+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/best-buy-black-friday-sale-sony-wh-ch700n-wireless-headphones)

Best Buy has discounted the Sony WH-CH700N wireless headphones in its early Black Friday sale.
The Sony WH-CH700N wireless headphones are really great, and underrated. Many don't think they are as good, since they are cheaper than the holy grail, WH-1000X M3 headphones. But these are really great ones to pick up, and now, they are just $89.99.
That's an all-time low price, down from $199 originally.
Advertisement
Sony WH-CH700N are over-ear headphones which offer some really great audio quality. Now these do not have a ton of bass, since it is not part of Sony's Extra Bass lineup. But there is bass there, and it is going to give you a pretty good amount of bass. The mids and highs are still crystal clear, as the bass doesn't really overpower the mids and highs. That's always important, especially with a pair of headphones that have a lot of bass.
When it comes to battery life, it's pretty incredible. We're looking at 35 hours on a single charge. That's better than just about any other pair of headphones out there. Sony is able to hit that number because it doesn't have noise cancellation or ambient sound on the Sony WH-CH700N. So that means that these can use less battery, and last even longer.
Sony has kept the NFC capability on the WH-CH700N headphones. Allowing you to easily just tap your phone onto the headphones and connect. It of course, uses Bluetooth to connect to your smartphone. There is a cable included in the box, so that you can uses these wired if you really wanted too.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Sony WH-CH700N wireless headphones in Best Buy's early Black Friday sale by clicking here. But you'd better hurry, as this price is not going to last long.

        Sony WH-CH700N - Best Buy - $89
      
