
# Darren Lewis: We need to pilot ideas to combat sky-high drunks

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:48:49+00:00**

Author: **Darren Lewis, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/darren-lewis/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/darren-lewis-need-pilot-ideas-20811082)

For some airline passengers, drinking in an airport or on a plane is similar to feasting at an all-you-can-eat buffet.
Get through as much as you can. Simply because you can. Never mind the time, or the state it leaves you in for the remainder of the flight.
Others who know their limits – or don’t drink at all – are left at the mercy of exhibitionists, thugs or idiots intent on placing everyone on board in danger.
Police data revealed in September that hundreds of airline passengers have been arrested in UK airports on suspicion of being drunk in the past two years.
They included travellers who sexually abused staff, urinated in public and were too intoxicated to fasten their seatbelts.
Even on the ground, the footage of an apparently drunken British couple engaged in a shocking fist fight on an Alicante shuttle bus last week left horrified onlookers in little doubt as to their probable condition in the sky.
Every nervous flier, family, cabin crew and plane traveller sick to the back teeth of boozed-up idiots running riot in the sky must be delighted when people get their comeuppance.
Like David Blicharz, 36, who was jailed for four months for subjecting fellow passengers to a two-hour rant on a flight from Antalya in Turkey to Manchester.
Other examples further afield include the drunk plane passenger on board a flight from Chicago to Baltimore who threw up in a fellow passenger’s hair this month.
Drink Awareness charity Change UK has called for airports to limit the amount they sell to passengers about to fly. Consumer magazine Which has also urged airlines to do more to restrict the amounts passengers drink on flights. I agree.
It’s high time that an initiative be put in place to stop these idiots turning the fun of flying into a boorish journey from hell.
