
# eBay’s Black Friday Drops promotion lets you start your savings right now

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:00:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/ebay-black-friday-drops?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: eBay
      
It's officially November which means it is Black Friday month. While the Black Friday and Cyber Monday weekend is still a few weeks away, a bunch of retailers are already kicking off their shopping spectaculars. Hot off the press this morning is eBay's announcement of its "Black Friday Drops" promotion, offering new deals every Friday through early December with popular products like the iPhone 11, Nintendo Switch Lite, coffee machines, and more being discounted in limited quantity.
The deals start right now with $20 off the Apple Watch Series 5, with the below deals to follow each week up to Black Friday and beyond. Shoppers can check eBay every Friday at 12pm ET / 9am PT to grab the drop of the day. Exact prices will be unveiled on the day of each drop with many items being limited in supply. Shipping is free.
There will also be daily discounts at the newly-unveiled eBay Holiday Outlet. Big-name brands like Dyson, Adidas, Jabra, and more will be offering savings and you can take an additional 20% off from November 4 through 11 on over 30 top brands in every category using coupon code JUMBO20.
If you're desperate to get your Black Friday shopping started, eBay has you covered in the run up to Black Friday itself. It is also offering its Best Price Guarantee with no blackout dates on deals, even throughout Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Find something cheaper elsewhere and eBay will refund 110% of the difference.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
