
# New York Jets Owner Christopher Johnson Must Take Away Some Of Adam Gase’s Power Right Now

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **J.P. Pelzman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jppelzman/2019/11/04/new-york-jets-owner-christopher-must-take-away-some-of-adam-gases-power-right-now/)

There were many painful snapshots for the New York Jets in their 26-18 loss to the Miami Dolphins on Sunday, but perhaps the most revealing one occurred early in the fourth quarter.With Miami ahead 24-15 and driving toward midfield, a CBS camera showed head coach Adam Gase all alone on the bench, marking up and pondering his offensive playcall sheet, seemingly oblivious to what was happening on the field.
It was not a good optic for the Jets, as it depicted a coach so into his own little world that he was neglecting the job the Johnson family is paying him to do, namely, coach the team. The entire team, that is.
Of course, the loss itself was an even worse look for Gase and the Jets because the tanking Dolphins had been winless until seeing their former head coach Sunday.
The loss has caused many frustrated Jets’ fans to call for Gase’s ouster on social media. When the Jets’ Twitter account posted video of Gase’s post-game press conference, several people replied by asking why he had not been fired yet, with others hoping Gase would submit his resignation.
Of course, it isn’t that simple.
Gase reportedly has a four-year deal, and it seems unlikely that Ira Akselrad, owner Christopher Johnson’s trusted money advisor, would sign off on Gase’s dismissal for financial reasons. The Johnsons already are paying the remainder of the salaries of former coach Todd Bowles, former general manager Mike Maccagnan, ex-assistant director of player personnel Brian Heimerdinger and numerous members of the scouting department, the latter of which were jettisoned after the NFL Draft.
The bottom line is that is a lot of money and Christopher Johnson may not want to pay two guys not to coach the team (Bowles and Maccagnan are being paid by the Jets through the end of the 2020 season).
So what can be done, at least in the short term?
Well, that freeze frame from the Miami loss should demonstrate to the owner that right now, Gase is unable to coach the whole team and be the offensive playcaller, at least not at this moment. Never mind the fact that head coaches such as the Los Angeles Rams’ Sean McVay are doing both successfully. That does not mean everyone can.
Yes, the Jets have been beset by a lot of significant injuries, and were without promising young quarterback Sam Darnold for three games because of a bout with mononucleosis. But those excuses can’t explain away the fact that Darnold and the Jets marched down the field on their first drive against Jacksonville and Miami the last two weeks, and then did little on offense after that. It is clear that Gase is game-planning well and scripting terrific first drives, but not making the necessary adjustments afterward.
More importantly, with his head so often buried in his laminated play sheet, Gase is unable to do things other head coaches do, such as admonishing players for mental mistakes or even congratulating them for successful plays.
And on Sunday, clock management suffered while Gase gazed at his laminated sheet. He failed to call any timeouts on the Jets’ final drive, which lacked a sense of urgency. Twice the Jets lost at least 20 seconds between plays before finally kicking a field goal with 15 seconds left. Granted, their chances of winning were extremely slim by that juncture, but that isn’t the point. Part of the head coach’s job, obviously, is to do everything he can to attempt to win the game.
Gase’s clock management on his team’s final possession fell far short of that mandate.
Offensive coordinator/quarterbacks coach Dowell Loggains (Chicago) and running backs coach Jim Bob Cooter (Detroit) both have been play-callers in the NFL, and although neither’s resume evokes comparisons to Norv Turner in his prime, Gase obviously isn’t lighting it up either these days.
But one problem with making Gase give up play-calling duties is simple—who is going to make that call? In the system of management set up by the Johnsons, Gase and general manager Joe Douglas are equals who both report to Christopher Johnson. So either Johnson would have to strip those responsibilities from Gase, or, better yet, empower Douglas to do it because he is a football lifer and has much more knowledge about the game than do the Johnsons.
Reducing Gase’s game-day responsibilities would give the Jets’ hierarchy a much better opportunity to see whether he has overburdened himself or whether he simply isn’t the right man for the job.
The Jets right now are broken, and the status quo will not fix this mess. Christopher Johnson must try something different now. Taking play-calling away from Gase would be a good first step.
