
# Canelo Alvarez Vs. Sergey Kovalev: 10 Things You Should Know About Saturday’s Fight

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/02/canelo-alvarez-vs-sergey-kovalev-10-things-you-should-know-about-saturdays-fight/)

Canelo Alvarez wants to solidify his spot near or at the top of boxing’s pound-for-pound list. He’ll take a major step in that direction if he can go up two weight classes and defeat WBO Light Heavyweight Champion Sergey Kovalev on Saturday in Las Vegas.Here are the 10 things you should know about the fight.

        Start Time
      
Expect to be up late for the main event. A midnight start time could have fight fans up until 1:30-2 a.m. on Sunday morning.

        Viewership Info
      
The fight is only available legally on DAZN. Here is the subscription info for the streaming service.

        Odds
      
Despite the size disadvantage, oddsmakers like Canelo to down Kovalev, per BetOnline.
Rarely will you see a fighter come up so far in weight and be this big of a favorite over a champion.

        Prop Bets
      
The prop bet with the most favorable odds has the fight going the distance. Oddsmakers set that result at -140. Canelo’s win prop bets are paced with -110 odds that the Mexican superstar will win by decision.
Kovalev’s most-likely route to a victory is by decision. Those odds are at +750. If Canelo wins by KO, oddsmakers favor the seventh round at +1600. Kovalev’s best stoppage odds are for the fifth round at +4000.
Interestingly, the odds for a draw are +2500.

        Weigh-In Results
      
There’s been a lot of talk about size in this matchup. Canelo is clearly giving up something in the height and length department, but not much as it pertains to weight. He weighed mere ounces lighter than Kovalev on Friday.
Canelo weighed in just under 175 pounds. Kovalev was right on the light heavyweight limit, but he needed to be weighed three times as he was just over the first two times.

        Purses
      
As part of Canelo’s massive DAZN deal, he’ll rake in $35 million for his work on Saturday. Per the Nevada State Athletic Commission (h/t Dan Rafael of ESPN), Kovalev will make at least $3 million.

        Drama Outside of the Ring
      
Kovalev has some legal issues waiting for him once the dust has settled with the fight. Later this month, an assault case goes to jury trial stemming from an alleged incident in June 2018. There is an $8 million lawsuit attached to these allegations.
Canelo doesn’t have legal problems, but there is dissension between him and his promoter Oscar De La Hoya. Canelo has professed his lack of trust for De La Hoya and has proclaimed their relationship is nothing more than a working one.

        Undercard
      
This isn’t a stacked undercard, but we will see undefeated prospect Ryan Garcia continue his career under the GBP banner.

        Last Time Out
      
Canelo pulled off another huge victory when he scored a unanimous-decision win over Daniel Jacobs. Alvarez’s improved defense and overall boxing acumen was on full display. Without a question, Canelo is in his prime as a fighter at 29 years old.
Kovalev won his last fight as well. He scored an 11th-round TKO win over previously undefeated challenger Anthony Yarde.
Kovalev had some rough moments in the fight. However, thanks to his jab, Yarde’s poor stamina, and the expert tutelage from trainer Buddy McGirt, Kovalev was able to come out on top.

        My Prediction
      
Size matters, but not in this fight. Canelo is simply too good, and Kovalev is no longer the bully he was before Andre Ward knocked the chip off his shoulder.
Canelo’s skill and body punching will lead to a stoppage victory near the middle rounds.
