
# Popeyes Chicken Sandwich craze continues with woman scraping car to get into drive-thru line

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:20:43+00:00**

Author: **Alexandra Deabler**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/food-drink/popeyes-chicken-sandwich-woman-scraping-car)

And so the Popeyes Chicken Sandwich craze continues.
A woman tried to get into a drive-thru line at a Popeyes in Los Angeles, sideswiping her own car in the process.

        
          THE POPEYES CHICKEN SANDWICH: CHAIN ANNOUNCES OFFICIAL RETURN DATE FOR SOLD-OUT ITEM
        
      
In a video shared to Instagram, a woman in a grey Mercedes is seen trying to merge into the drive-thru lane by jamming her car in front of a dark grey Toyota that is at the order window. According to the person who filmed the incident, the woman in the Mercedes was not cutting in line, but merging from one of two drive-thru lanes, Eater reports.

        WARNING: Graphic language.
      
In the close-up video, the woman is seen struggling to move her car forward as it scrapes along the concrete safety bollard and scratches up her paint job, as well as takes off part of her door panel.

        
          CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
        
      
A witness is heard telling the driver, “Damn, you’re f---ing your s--- up.”
Another man, seemingly to be with her, is seen standing in front of the Toyota before banging on the window and telling the car to back up. Off camera, someone can be heard encouraging the man to “open her door” and “bust the windows.”

        
          CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
        
      
At one point a Popeyes employee comes out and reportedly informs the woman she will not be able to order.
Bystanders did not seem shocked by the scene, with one person smiling and nodding “yes” when asked if the coveted fast food sandwich is “that worth it.”

        
          FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
        
      
Since the sandwich returned to stores Sunday after a two-month hiatus, Popeyes has been plagued with long-lines, fights and one fatality when a man tried to cut in line at a Maryland location Monday night.
Popeyes has not commented on the violence that has been sparked over the sandwich.
