
# Perrie Edwards teases she's engaged to Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain after surname slip-up

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:23:19+00:00**

Author: **Lily Waddell, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lily-waddell/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/perrie-edwards-teases-shes-engaged-20823873)

Perrie Edwards hinted she is engaged to her man Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain.
The Little Mix star, 26, claimed she would be able to spell his surname right when it belongs to her and she has to write it "all the time".
It's only natural engagement talk was swirling as the couple have been going steady for three years and moved in together earlier this year.
The pop star's slip up sparked a cheeky exchange between the loved-up duo that sparked talk the couple could be heading down the aisle very soon.
Over a snap of the footballer, she plastered the words: "You to me are everything my Alex Oxlade-Chamberlaine OH BABY OH BABEHHH."
Eagle-eyed fans didn't mind pointing out to the singer she had spelt her loved one's surname wrong.
"I love you and him but you should be able to spell his love, up them reds," one fan wrote.
Clearly finding it amusing, Perrie took to her Instagram stories to share a screengrab of the comment.
She penned along the top: "F**k sakes! My bad. Thank you Jack."
Quick to get in on the joke, her man Alex teased his girlfriend when he made a plea for her to spell his name correctly.
He penned: "@perrieedwards spell my name right at least will ya."
But Perrie added fuel to the fire when she claimed it would be easier to spell his name if it was also her last name.
Fans went into overdrive when she posted the flirtatious message which seemed to suggest they could be engaged.
She wrote: "It'll be way easier to spell when it's my second name and I have to write it all the time."
In a private message to her love, Perrie admitted she couldn't believe she had spelt his name wrong.
In conversation, she wrote: "Also I cannot believe you spelt my name wrong on your story."
Perrie hasn't made a secret of her love for her beau as she previously admitted she would love to spend the rest of her life with him.
The singer often shares pictures of her man and of them as a couple on her social media account.
She previously wrote in tribute: “Happy birthday my love. 24! If I can wake up to this for the rest of my life that would be wonderful!”.
