
# Ford Focus ST estate 2.3L EcoBoost manual review – Load-lugger has real horsepower

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:26:06+00:00**

Author: **Maggie Barry, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/maggie-barry/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/lifestyle/motoring/ford-focus-st-estate-23l-20828047)

THE Ford Focus ST estate is the scariest car I have ever driven and, having said that, I know many people will now immediately decide they want one.
It is kind of a super hot coupe/hatch that roars at you as soon as you switch on the engine, at which point I suggest you roar back just to let it know who is boss. The blue oval badge machine comes with, Overboost, you see, to let you know it is beefed up and, boy, can you feel it.
I edged down my driveway in it as it twitched and growled. My daughters used to have horses and it reminded me of the times they got on the really highly strung ones. These nervy beasts were invariably the ones that won everything so I guess, as in animals, it goes with the performance.
To prove the point, the Focus ST has won the Hot Hatch category at the Association of Scottish Motoring Writers’ 2019 Scottish Car of the Year (SCOTY) Awards.
This car is mad, bad and dangerous to know. Practically speaking, it will give you the drive of your life. The version I was driving came in Performance Blue, which reminded me very much of the Nitrous Blue colour of the RS – my favourite car – and I can see a theme emerging here.
While other manufacturers livery their high performance cars in reds and blacks, Ford have decided to drape theirs in lovely blue colours to fool you into thinking you are entering a pretty relaxing model – until you start driving this wolf in sheep’s clothing.
   
It comes with a 2.3-litre engine – one of the EcoBoost variants that Ford seem to be able to do anything with from the smallest city car to the Mustang. This provides a top speed of 155mp and delivers 280PS. No wonder it was behaving like a bucking bronco as I tore along the country lanes around my house.
It comes with unique ST bodystyling, a large rear spoiler and 19in alloys. And, here’s the giveaway – it has red brake calipers. Inside it has alloy finish pedals, Recaro partial leather seats and rear privacy glass.
Almost oddly, due to the nature of this beast, it comes with lots of Ford’s everyday common sense features such as the Quickclear heated windscreen for taking the kids to school in winter, as you do in this car, the heated steering wheel, and an openable panoramic roof (£995), which is great for keeping babies quiet while you drive as they like to look at the sky.
It comes with Ford’s SYNC3 infotainment system with sat nav and an eight-inch touchscreen.
This offers connectivity with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay and there are other sensible features such as front and rear parking sensors, adaptive cruise control, lane centring assist and a tyre pressure monitoring system.
Interestingly, though, this car had a Performance Pack on board, too, (just £250) that adds an extra mode Track with a shift indicator, launch control, rev matching and multi-colour ambient lighting. That’s more like it, I thought.
I think I started out by saying this was a super hot car. After driving it, I’ve changed my mind – it’s not super hot, it’s scorching.
