
# Frank Lampard sends Olivier Giroud warning after latest Chelsea snub

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Neil McLeman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/neil-mcleman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/frank-lampard-sends-olivier-giroud-20791127)

Frank Lampard has told Olivier Giroud that club comes before country after the World Cup winner failed to make Chelsea ’s Carabao Cup side.
The former Arsenal striker has made only two starts this season and France coach Didier Deschamps has appealed for his leading striker to be given more game time.
Yet when the Blues boss rotated his team in midweek, it was Belgium’s Michy Batshuayi who replaced top scorer Tammy Abraham.
All three forwards will want to star at Euro 2020 next summer and need to impress their national coaches. But Lampard insisted: “It is difficult for me and it is difficult for them – we both have our jobs so it doesn’t feature in my thinking. I have care for all the players. I have to pick the squad as I see it for the best of Chelsea as they do for their countries.
“I have got three strikers to pick from and I have to make the choices. Again I can’t complain about any of their attitudes.
“Things will look different and that is where you need professionalism. Between those three I have had it from all of them.”
Giroud is out of contract in the summer and had been linked with a move to the MLS after the Euros. But the Frenchman could seek a change in January – with Lyon linked with him this week – although Chelsea will not be able to replace him because of their transfer ban.
“I would always have a conversation with a player who says they don’t want to play for the football club, whoever they are,” said Lampard. “That is something where I would have a clear and honest conversation with them. We are not at that point yet so it is not one to discuss right now.”
Batshuayi has yet to start a Premier League game this season but netted a stunning solo effort against Manchester United . “He loves scoring goals,” said Lampard.
“That might sound simple for a striker but I’ve seen some that don’t love it quite as much. He does.”
Chelsea’s run of seven consecutive wins was ended by Marcus Rashford in midweek and Lampard reckoned today’s (sat) trip to bottom club Watford is “dangerous”. He said: “We can’t underestimate a team that will be hurting because they haven’t won for a while and will have every ambition to try to win this game.”
