
# South Africa outclass England to win third Rugby World Cup

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:03:55+00:00**

Author: **RFI**

Original: [RFI](http://en.rfi.fr/sports/20191102-rugby-south-africa-outclass-england-win-third-world-cup-springboks-kolbe-pollard)


        South Africa have dominated England in the final of the Rugby World Cup to secure their third world title in Yokohama, Japan. Wings Makazole Mapimpi and Cheslin Kolbe each scored tries as the Springboks leapt away to a 32-12 win over the tournament favourites.
      
Star player Kolbe put the icing on the cake for the Springboks in the late minutes, adding to a scintillating try from Mapimpi and six penalties from outstanding fly-half Handre Pollard.
Superb game management, set piece dominance, brutal defence and almost flawless place-kicking looked like being enough to see off an England side that had dismantled the double defending champion All Blacks in the semi-finals last week.
Mapimpi has been in prolific form this year, however, and he showed the South Africans can play a bit with ball in hand too when he finished off a try created by his own chip-through in the 66th minute.
Kolbe added the second try eight minutes later, skipping past the tackle of Owen Farrell on the wing and racing away to touch down to the delight of the South Africans in the crowd of 70,103.
Fly-half Pollard had already given the South Africans a clear lead from his penalties and he added the two conversions to take his match tally to 22.

        Achieving for South Africa
      
While tactics were as traditional as the dark green Springbok shirt, the team was far more representative of the rainbow nation than those of 1995 and 2007, with Siya Kolisi is the first black captain to lift the Webb Ellis Cup.
"We are so grateful to the people of South Africa," Kolisi said after the match. "We have so many problems in our country. But a team like this, we come from different backgrounds, different races. We came together with one goal. 
