
# Good News? Deepika Padukone posts baby pictures and fans start guessing that the actress is pregnant!

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:59:40+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/good-news-deepika-padukone-posts-baby-pictures-and-fans-start-guessing-that-the-actress-is-pregnant/articleshow/71877262.cms)

Deepika Padukone enjoys massive following on social media and on Sunday the actress decided to treat her fans with a few baby pictures. Tagging her post as “post diwali celebrations…” the actress shared a few baby postcards on Instagram, leaving everyone guessing if it was her in those pictures. But a few users took the guessing game to a different level and soon started speculating that Deepika is pregnant and is hinting some ‘good news’ with the pictures. From ‘Baby in on the cards’ to ‘Congratulations are in order’, Deepika’s Instagram posts were flooded with talks of her being pregnant.
On the work front, Deepika will soon be seen in ‘Chhapaak’ wherein she plays the role of an acid attack survivor. Directed by Meghna Gulzar, the film also features Vikrat Massey. The film is scheduled to hit the screens on January 10, 2020. ‘Chhapaak’ will clash at the box office with Ajay Devgn-Saif Ali Khan starrer period drama ‘Tanhaji – The Unsung Warrior’.
Also, Deepika had recently announced that she will play a powerful female character of Draupadi in 'Mahabharat', which she will be producing along with Madhu Mantena. The film will be made as franchise, first part of which will hit the big screens on Diwali 2021."I'm absolutely thrilled and honoured to be essaying the role of Draupadi. I truly believe that it is the role of a lifetime,” Deepika said in a statement to Mumbai Mirror.
