
# Someone at the age of 82 should reflect more maturity, MSK Prasad fires back at Farokh Engineer

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:39:06+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/someone-at-the-age-of-82-should-reflect-more-maturity-msk-prasad-fires-back-at-farokh-engineer?utm_medium=rss)


        Chairman MSK Prasad has lashed out at 82-year-old Farokh Engineer for his comments on the selection committee saying that he should reflect more maturely. Engineer had claimed in an interview that the selectors were seen serving tea to captain Virat Kohli’s wife Anushka during the World Cup.
      
Speaking to the Times of India, former wicket-keeper Engineer, who played 46 Tests for India, ridiculed the credentials of India’s five-member selection panel, led by MSK Prasad. During the discourse, he even dragged Anushka’s name into the picture by claiming that he saw one of these five men serving her tea during one of India’s matches at the World Cup in England.
“Let’s not forget that this selection committee has been appointed by BCCI through a proper process in an AGM. Someone at the age of 82 should reflect maturity and enjoy the progress of Indian cricket from his time to the current day,” Prasad told PTI on Thursday.
Much like Anushka herself, who responded via her social media accounts, Prasad felt that it was beneath a man of Engineer’s stature to engage in such nasty comments.
“I feel sad for someone deriving sadistic pleasure out of indulging in petty talk, thereby demeaning & disrespecting the selectors and wife of Indian captain through false and frivolous allegations,” Prasad added.
