
# Red Dead Redemption 2 on PC is exactly what you think it is

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Samit Sarkar**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/1/20942406/red-dead-redemption-2-rdr2-pc-impressions)

Just over a year after its release on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, Red Dead Redemption 2 will arrive on Windows PC. The PC version, which Rockstar Games developed itself, debuts Nov. 5 on a variety of digital storefronts — including the new Rockstar Launcher — although it will not be available on Steam until December.
After spending an hour playing the PC port earlier this week at Rockstar’s headquarters in New York City, I can report that it’s exactly what you probably expect: a gussied-up version of a game that already wowed everyone last year with its gorgeous rendition of the Old West. In fairness, Rockstar isn’t pitching it as anything more than that. But there is one entirely new feature that doesn’t exist on consoles — a proper photo mode, one that’s not limited by the player character’s turn-of-the-century camera.
As Rockstar announced in October, the PC version does include some new playable content, although it all seems like minor additions rather than anything significant. For instance, three of the four new weapons, and two of the new horses, are already available in Red Dead Online. And the new quote-unquote mission, which comes from a stranger in the world, amounts to an herbal collect-a-thon. In other words, if you already own Red Dead Redemption 2 on PS4 or Xbox One, you won’t be missing much if you decide not to double-dip on PC. (Unfortunately, you will indeed be missing it: Asked if Rockstar is planning to bring the PC port’s bonus content to the console versions, a spokesperson said the company has nothing to announce at this time.)
Really, the point of the PC version is to deliver the highest-fidelity version of Red Dead Redemption 2. And Rockstar certainly appears to have succeeded there.
