
# Toothless Man Utd Suffer Disappointing Loss

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:21:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/manchester-united/english-premier-league-report-bournemouth-v-manchester-united-02-november-2019/666586)


        English Premier League
      
Result: Bournemouth  1-0 Manchester United
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Vitality Stadium
Manchester United's struggles in the Premier League continued as they suffered defeat to Bournemouth on Saturday afternoon.
Folllowing the win over Chelsea in the Carabao Cup on Wednesday evening, David de Gea, Ashley Young, Anthony Martial and Andreas Pereira returned to the United line-up.
The Red Devils enjoyed a lot of the possesion in the early stages, while the likes of Pereira and Fred squandered fairly good openings inside the opening 10 minutes.
Bournmeouth, meanwhile, were second best from the onset but whenever they did manage to get on the ball, they were unable to trouble the United back-four and De Gea.
While the clash looked to heading to the break with no goals, the Cherries broke the deadlock on the stroke of halftime through former United striker Joshua King's neat finish.
The second half continued in same fashion for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's charges, who had no real attacking impetus in the opening 15 minutes of the stanza.
As a result, Solskjaer opted to withdraw the in-effective Pereira for Jesse Lingard on the hour mark, although it was the hosts who nearly got the next goal after Harry Wilson's low strike was palmed away by De Gea.
United went agonisingly close to pulling level with eight minutes to play in the half as Fred played a neat pass into substitute Mason Greenwood, who struck the upright from the edge of the box.
In the end, the Red Devils were unable to find a way to hit the back of the net as the Cherries held on for a crucial victory on home soil.
