
# Mai Shiranui is too booby for the ‘good boys and girls’ of Smash Ultimate

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:20:00+00:00**

Author: **Julia Lee**

Original: [Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/2019/11/7/20953225/super-smash-bros-ultimate-mai-shiranui-kof-fatal-fury-snk)

Super Smash Bros. Ultimate director Masahiro Sakurai did a 48-minute deep dive on the game’s new character, SNK’s Terry Bogard, and his new stage on Wednesday. The stage, King of Fighters stadium, has many of the franchise favorite characters like Geese Howard, King, Blue Mary, Athena, and Iori bouncing around in the background. However, there is one SNK character that isn’t in there and will never be added.
Sakurai put his hands together during the video, faced the camera, and noted that Mai Shiranui will not have a cameo in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, because the game is for “good boys and girls of many different ages.”
One look at Mai and everyone will immediately realize why she’s not included in this family-friendly game. She’s a massively popular character, one of the main female mascots for the SNK franchise, but her outfit is just too skimpy! While Sakurai didn’t explicitly explain why Mai wasn’t included, we can probably guess that it has something to do with her lack of clothing.
Naturally, Twitter went to work in making memes about how Mai’s bodacious bod is what’s preventing her from getting a sweet Smash cameo.
[Warning: The images below teeter on the line of being not safe for work, but you saw the headline and you probably know what you’re getting into already, honestly.]
