
# Plymouth Argyle injury update on midfield duo Jose Baxter and Conor Grant

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:19:53+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/plymouth-argyle-injury-update-midfield-3490758)

Midfield duo Jose Baxter and Conor Grant continue to be ruled out of action for Plymouth Argyle.
Manager Ryan Lowe has confirmed that neither of them will be fit for the League Two game against Grimsby Town at Home Park on Saturday.
However, the pair are getting close to being available after calf and thigh injuries respectively, and so his striker Dom Telford following his absence due to a hamstring problem.
Lowe said: “They (Baxter and Grant) are probably a week away I would say. They are on grass-based running now, grass-based work.
“I don’t know who’s going to come first, whether it will be Conor or Jose.
“Dom is not far either. So, if you want an answer, I think it will be Dom, Conor and then Jose maybe.”
After the game against Grimsby the Pilgrims will have a fortnight break from league action.
That is because they will be away to Keith Hill’s League One outfit Bolton Wanderers in the FA Cup first round next Saturday.
That tie could be a chance to get Telford, and possibly one or both of Baxter and Grant some game-time.
Grant has missed the last five matches after he was injured in the 3-0 Leasing.com Trophy win at Swindon Town on October 8.
Baxter originally hurt his calf in the 2-2 league draw at Crawley Town on September 17 and had a spell out of the side.
The 27-year-old did return to play as a substitute in the 1-1 league draw away to Swindon almost a month later.
However, Baxter has not featured for the Pilgrims in the four games since then because of continuing soreness.
