
# West Belfast carpet warehouse arson attack 'despicable'

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mairead Holland**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/04/news/west-belfast-carpet-warehouse-arson-attack-despicable--1755303/)

A CARPET business in west Belfast has been extensively damaged in a "despicable" arson attack in the early hours of yesterday morning.
The blaze took place at Glendale Carpets and Flooring on Kennedy Way just before 12.45am.
Four pumping appliances, an aerial appliance and a command support vehicle attended.
NIFRS group commander Philip Martin said there was a "well-developed fire" when firefighters arrived and that part of the roof had collapsed.
He said the fire was contained to the carpet warehouse but that some neighbouring businesses in the single storey building sustained smoke damage.
The Fire Service, who were aided by a gas company and NI Water, remained at the scene until after 11am damping down the area.
Kennedy Way was closed between the Andersonstown Road junction and the Glen Road junction for several hours.
Detective Inspector Tom Phillips described it as a "despicable attack, which will undoubtedly have a severe impact on the businesses affected".
He appealed to anyone with information to phone detectives on 101, quoting reference 95 of 03/11/19, or contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
Meanwhile, a woman escaped injury in a house in Co Derry on Friday afternoon after her neighbours raised the alarm and helped her to safety.
Police said they received a report around 12.50pm that a house and garage in Manor Court in Kilrea were alight.
Both were extensively damaged and a vehicle parked at the front of the house was completely destroyed.
Enquiries are continuing to establish the cause of the blaze.
