
# BREAKING: Sainsbury's profits tumble 15% as £41million wiped from bottom line

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:36:20+00:00**

Author: **James Andrews, http://www.facebook.com/jameswritesmoney/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/breaking-sainsburys-profits-tumble-15-20830207)

Sainsbury's reported a 15% fall in first-half profit, blaming the combined impact of the phasing of cost savings, higher marketing costs and tough weather comparatives with last year that hit sales.
The profit fall comes as the 150-year old Sainsbury's tries to rebuild confidence in its strategy following a botched attempt to take over rival Asda. Britain's competition regulator blocked the agreed £7.3 billion deal in April and Sainsbury's shares have fallen 34% over the last year.
Sainsbury's it made an underlying pretax profit of £238 million in the 28 weeks to Sept. 21. That compares with analysts' average forecast of £232 million but is down from £279 million made in the same period last year.
It forecast profits in the second half would benefit from the annualisation of last year's staff wage increase and a normalisation of marketing costs and weather comparatives.
Chief executive Mike Coupe said the company was investing heavily and customers were seeing the benefits.
"We have created positive momentum across the business through strategic investments in our customer offer," he said.
"We have lowered prices on every day food and groceries, launched a range of value brands and are more competitive on price than we have ever been.
"We are investing in hundreds of Sainsbury's and Argos stores, introducing new products and services and continually improving service and availability. As a result, customer satisfaction has increased significantly year on year."
