
# Police forced to remove 'abusive' passengers from easyJet plane at Manchester airport

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:04:38+00:00**

Author: **Sam Yarwood, Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/police-forced-remove-abusive-passengers-20792830)

An easyJet flight was forced to abandon take-off over the 'abusive, threatening behaviour' of two passengers on board.
The two passengers were removed from the Amsterdam-bound flight at Manchester airport on Friday afternoon.
Pictures shared with Manchester Evening News show airport police on board the EZY1837 plane and a man in red t-shirt is seen walking down the aisle.
The pair were eventually escorted off the plane and brought for further investigation by the police.
The incident happened after the flight had left the gate and was on its course to the runway.
However, the pilot decided to turn back to the apron due to the rowdy behaviour.
 
All other passengers had to disembark the plane and were told to wait at the boarding gate while the police officers were dealing with the situation.
The flight was scheduled to depart at 11:35am but was delayed for two-and-a-half hours.
It arrived Amsterdam at 4:24pm local time.
EasyJet issued a statement, which read: "We can confirm that flight EZY1837 from Manchester to Amsterdam was required to return to stand and met by police due to two passengers behaving disruptively onboard.
"Our cabin crew are trained to assess and evaluate all situations and to act quickly and appropriately to ensure that the safety of the flight and other passengers is not compromised at any time.
"Whilst such incidents are rare, we take them very seriously, do not tolerate abusive or threatening behaviour on board.
"The safety and wellbeing of passengers and crew is always our highest priority."
