
# Who will win Rangers vs Porto? Our writers deliver their Europa League predictions

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:42:45+00:00**

Author: **Record Sport Online**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/who-win-rangers-vs-porto-20825307)

Rangers are poised for a pivotal Europa League showdown as Porto head to Ibrox on Thursday night.
Steven Gerrard's side are well in contention to qualify for the knockout stage of the competition and the Rangers boss is targeting three points.
His side earned a draw at Estadio do Dragao last time out but are determined to go one better on home soil.
Can they secure a famous victory? Here's how our writers have called this massive fixture.
Porto have been going through the motions since dropping into this competition. Rangers were the better side a fortnight ago in Portugal and a similar level of performance in front of a full house at Ibrox should be enough to get the job done. 

        Rangers 2 Porto 0
      
Rangers could have won in Portugal and that gives them a great opportunity to do the damage at Ibrox. However, the Portuguese are a wily and talented outfit and have enough ability to cause their own problems to Gerrard’s team. It may well end up the same scoreline as a fortnight ago.

        Rangers 1 Porto 1
      

         
      
Porto can't play as poorly as they did in the reverse fixture at home so Rangers will have to be wary. But Gerrard's side have been terrific at Ibrox in the Europa League and with the stadium rocking they can pick up a precious three points. If Gers can pass it as well as they did in Portugal a fortnight ago, allied to the raucous atmosphere, they can get the win and give themselves a great chance of qualifying.

        Rangers 2 Porto 1
      
Another thrilling Euro night under the lights at Ibrox will keep Rangers' last 32 dream alive. Porto could be more of a threat in Glasgow than they were at home if they look to play on the counter but Rangers' top players are high on confidence - nobody more so than Alfredo Morelos who will inspire another creditable result and point in the quest for qualification.

        Rangers 1 Porto 1
      
The draw in Porto should give Rangers enough confidence to get the job done at Ibrox and with 50,000 behind them they should be fired up. There's a confidence among this team that has been missing from past Rangers sides and even up against a club with the pedigree of Porto, they should be on the front foot. If they can get Ryan Kent in full flow going forward then they should sneak a win.

        Rangers 1 Porto 0
      

         
      
"Ibrox will be rocking". Gerrard’s words ahead of the game and ones that hit the nail right on the head. Never underestimate the part the fans can play in a match so, with the rump of 50,000 fans inside the iconic stadium roaring on Gerrard’s side on a European night, you have to expect a Rangers win. Especially when Gerrard’s side can play a bit. Ryan Jack, Steve Davis and Morelos are all on top form which is another reason to back the home team.

        Rangers 3 Porto 1
      
The draw in Portugal a fortnight past was Rangers' best European performance under Gerrard and will fill his players with renewed confidence. They displayed a control and composure vital to survival at this level, yet they'll also draw on the manic energy of Ibrox to unsettle a Porto side jeered off by their own fans at the weekend, despite winning. Rangers are on a high following their Hampden exploits and should grab another positive result to set up two mammoth final fixtures.

        Rangers 1 Porto 1
      

         
      
