
# Professional footballer, 34, arrested over 'trying to blackmail manager'

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:59:48+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/professional-footballer-34-arrested-over-17208164)

A professional footballer has been arrested on suspicion of blackmailing his own manager, according to reports.
The anonymous player, who will remain unnamed due to legal reasons, has allegedly been quizzed by cops.
The player was spoken to by detectives and subsequently released on bail.
Police are continuing to investigate the claims, which relate to a 34-year-old football star.
The footballer has been released by his club as police launch a probe into the allegations, according to  the Daily Mail.
 
A spokesperson for the police force leading the probe said: 'Detectives investigating an allegation of blackmail arrested a 34-year-old man on suspicion of blackmail."
The spokesperson added: "He has been released under investigation while enquiries continue."
According to the Mail, at least two police forces are investigating the case.
 
The footballer attempted to extract thousands of pounds from his manager in relation to a betting accounts, it has been alleged.
Threats have been made to the manager about his wife and children, too, according to reports in the media on Wednesday morning.
And there are even claims that the player, who denies the allegations, shared information about the manager's whereabouts on nights before away matches with those pursuing the money.
