
# Virgil van Dijk's reaction in the tunnel immediately after Liverpool stunned Aston Villa

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:27:34+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/virgil-van-dijks-reaction-tunnel-20811587)

Behind the scenes footage has shown Virgil van Dijk's brilliant reaction to Liverpool dramatic late fightback at Aston Villa on Saturday.
The Reds looked to be staring their first Premier League defeat since January in the face as they trailed with just five minutes remaining.
But late headers from Andy Robertson and Sadio Mane completed a dramatic turnaround to maintain their strong position at the top of the table.
It sparked wild celebrations in the away end at Villa Park and prompted imposing centre-back Van Dijk, clearly delighted with what had just transpired, to shout "That's what we do" in the tunnel as he headed back to the dressing room.
It is no surprise to hear Van Dijk's confidence given their habit of scoring late goals in recent months.
The Reds have become known for their knack of striking at vital times when they look set to drop points, leaving them with the advantage over rivals Manchester City in the title race.
Van Dijk recently warned they are only focused on themselves and have nothing to lose in their battle to finally win the Premier League title.
He told Sky Sports : "I don't watch Man City's games but I have family and friends who text me or say something, especially after the Wolves game.
"That's just part of life but we've learnt from last year that we don't have to look to the others until the end of the campaign. So far, we have been doing well but Man City are definitely not going away.
"I don't think we have anything to lose. Man City are the champions, they're defending their title and we want to get it. In my point of view, we just have to go for it.
"The pressure gets bigger, but that comes from the media. They love to put more pressure on us and that's something we have to deal with.
"I don't mind because I'm not thinking about what other people say, I just want to win every game that is ahead of me.
"We definitely need to enjoy it [being top of the Premier League] and be full of confidence, especially with the way we've got these points, having not had the best games but still getting the wins."
