
# Teenage Torquay nursery worker arrested on suspicion of sex offences as '100 families contacted'

Published at: **2019-11-05T12:19:14+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/teenage-torquay-nursery-worker-arrested-17202933)

A nursery worker has been arrested on suspicious of sex offences at a children's nursery, police have revealed .
The male teenager was held after allegations of sexual assault were made at Jack and Jill's Childcare in Torquay, Devon, in July this year.
Devon and Cornwall Police immediately launched an inquiry with the suspect being arrested and released under police investigation while inquiries continue.
Bail conditions exclude the teenager from the immediate vicinity of the nursery and police said he had since left the Devon and Cornwall force area.
 
Detectives have contacted over 100 families whose children would have attended the nursery during the investigation period. It is understood around dozen families may have been directly affected.
After the inquiry was launched, police uncovered "a number of concerns around safeguarding matters" and on October 24 Ofsted suspended the nursery's licence.
Acting Detective Chief Inspector James Stock, of the Public Protection Unit said: "Since the information was received in July, a police investigation has been ongoing.
 
"As part of this, over 250 hours of CCTV from within Jack and Jill Childcare have been reviewed.
"As a result of CCTV enquires, a number of children aged 2+ have been identified as potential victims of contact offences.
"We have now contacted all parents and guardians of children who attended Jack and Jill Childcare in relation to our investigation."
