
# Manchester United expected to dip into January transfer market

Published at: **2019-11-06T01:31:16+00:00**

Author: **Ollie Slack**

Original: [Red Devil Armada](https://reddevilarmada.com/2019/11/06/manchester-united-expected-to-dip-into-january-transfer-market-ole-gunnar-solskjaer-mario-mandzukic-timo-werner-romelu-lukaku-dan-james-harry-maguire-aaron-wan-bissaka/)

United are currently 10th in the Premier League, however, they are one win away from possibly entering the top six. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s new signings have been some of the better performers this season also, with Daniel James, Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Harry Maguire proving to be strong acquisitions.
Despite the competent summer business, Solskjaer was apparently not happy that the club allowed striker Romelu Lukaku to leave without bringing in a replacement. It seems as though the team is feeling the effect of that, with 12 other clubs scoring more goals in the league than the Red Devil’s this season.
That is why, according to the Metro, the club has moved already in agreeing to a deal with a striker to sign in January. Mario Madzukic is a name that has been talked about a lot in the English media. Former centre-half Wes Brown discussed the matter on TalkSport recently and believes the Juventus’ man would be a good purchase.
Another striker Solskjaer could be tempted to buy in January is RB Leipzig’s Timo Werner. The German international is 23-years of age and has been involved in 19 goals in 16 games this season, scoring 13.
However, The Mirror reported yesterday that Werner will not be allowed to leave Leipzig in January after recently signing a new contract. The German club allegedly has no intention to let the striker leave. Werner has also been admired by Liverpool for some time.
Whether or not Solskjaer sticks with his youth policy and opts to buy a striker in the mould of Werner or the Norwegian feels a more experienced head could benefit United’s youngsters, like Mandzukic, is yet to be known. However, one thing is for sure, Solskjaer means business and he will be hoping the clubs hierarchy can get some done in January.
