
# 2020 Benelli TNT 600 revealed

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:49:00+00:00**

Author: **Staff Writer**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/bike-news/2020-benelli-tnt-600-revealed-414743)

Benelli's TNT 600 likely to be BS6 compliant and could launch in India soon.
Benelli has revealed the 2020 TNT 600 and it bears little resemblance to the bike seen in the images leaked online earlier this year. In fact, the new TNT 600 looks like a minor facelift of the older TNT 600i, with the most noticeable changes being a new LED headlight and full-TFT display. Interestingly, the bike will not be available in Europe.
The 2020 TNT 600 runs the same hardware as the older model that’s sold in India – a steel trellis frame suspended on a 50mm USD fork, and preload and rebound adjustable monoshock. Braking hardware consists of dual 320mm discs at the front and a 260mm disc at the rear. The 17-inch wheels equipped with 120/70 and 180/55 section tyres have also been carried over from the older model. However, what is disappointing is that at 234kg, the bike is now 3kg more than before.
Apart from the headlight, the design of the bike appears to be the same. That said, Benelli has revealed that two colour schemes will be on offer – green and white. The white scheme pictured above also appears to have a different graphic scheme on the tank.
Powering the TNT 600 is the same 600cc inline-four engine, but it now produces a slightly lower peak power and torque at 81.6hp at 11,500rpm and 51Nm at 10,500rpm. In comparison, the older TNT 600i produced 85.07hp and 54.6Nm at the same points in the rev band. The drop in power could be because the new TNT 600 likely complies with stricter emission norms, and we could see this iteration making its way here very soon.
What remains to be seen is whether the Benelli seen in the leaked images will see the light of day anytime soon. 
 
