
# Celebrity X Factor 'fix' furore after eagle-eyed fans spot Louis Walsh's autocue

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:48:38+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/celebrity-x-factor-fix-furore-17200612)

Viewers tuning into this year's X Factor: Celebrity have been left convinced the show is fixed.
Those watching the ITV1 reality contest on Saturday evening have flocked to social media to have their say.
Twitter and Facebook are awash with comments from eagle-eyed fans all accusing the show of the same thing.
The series has seen Nicole Scherzinger join Simon Cowell and Louis Walsh on the judging panel.
And those watching on Saturday night (November 2) have been left speculating it is all a work - because of Louis's autocue.
This weekend, the Irishman was full of praise after one of his acts Kevin McHale gave a strong performance on Saturday night's live show.
Louis decided that Kevin deserved his coveted safe seat pass to send him through to the next live show.
 
But some viewers noticed that before Louis pressed the buzzer, the autocue behind him read "Congrats through to next week."
This left some people convinced that the moment was pre-planned.
 
“'Congrats. Through to next week' on the autocue. No so spontaneous eh Louis Walsh? #xfactor #isitafix #celebrityxfactor." tweeted one viewer.
Another commented: "Is this that #DanceMonkey song that #kevinmchale is doing?
"Great performance. BUT did anyone notice the autocue was ready to prompt Dermot to say he was through to next week before Louis had even pressed the button?"
