
# Harry Dunn parents say they rejected Trump offer of cheque

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:05:51+00:00**

Author: **Haroon Siddique**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2019/nov/07/harry-dunn-parents-say-they-rejected-offer-of-a-cheque-from-trump)


        Proposal made at White House encounter when couple were urged to meet Anne Sacoolas
      
The family of a 19-year-old motorcyclist killed outside a Northamptonshire RAF base in a crash involving the wife of a US diplomat have said compensation from Donald Trump will not resolve the matter.
Anne Sacoolas was allegedly driving on the wrong side of the road before the collision with Harry Dunn on 27 August outside RAF Croughton where her husband worked.
After the crash, Sacoolas, 42, left the UK against the wishes of the Foreign Office, claiming diplomatic immunity under a relatively obscure agreement covering the base.
The Dunn family’s spokesman, Radd Seiger, told PA Media that their meeting at the White House on 15 October ended with the president saying the secretary of the treasury, Steven Mnuchin, was “standing by ready to write a cheque”.
Seiger added: “It was almost as if he let it slip out. When he said: ‘We’ve got the driver here’, he basically meant we’re all going to have a big hug and a kiss and I’ll get my treasury guy to write a cheque. That’s how it was. On the day it just didn’t register with me, but the more I think about those words, the more shocking it is.”
On Thursday, Dunn’s mother, Charlotte Charles, and his father, Tim Dunn, met the Northamptonshire police and crime commissioner, Stephen Mold, to discuss their dissatisfaction with the force’s investigation into their son’s death.
Afterwards, Charles said of Trump’s offer: “It’s not going to bring Harry back. Justice has to be done. They all need to learn that this can’t happen again and they need to learn that things need to be put into place to stop this.”
She said she remained determined that Sacoolas return to the UK to face justice.
“It is frustrating – they must see there’s something not right. Why are they making it difficult?”
During the visit to the White House, Trump ruled out Sacoolas being sent back to the UK but also revealed that the diplomat’s wife was in the next room and tried to persuade them to meet her. They refused and later said they were unimpressed.
Last week Northamptonshire police submitted a file to the Crown Prosecution Service after interviewing Sacoolas in the US.
The foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said last month that the government believed diplomatic immunity “clearly ended” for Sacoolas when she left the country.
