
# CBD Is More Popular Than Jesus, Kanye West, The NBA, Taylor Swift, The Beatles And AOC Right Now, Data Shows

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Javier Hasse**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/javierhasse/2019/11/01/cbd-popularity/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

CBD might as well stand for “crazy buzz, Dude.” The chemical compound found in cannabis and hemp is everywhere these days, from products for athletes to beverages, and from hummus to the investment portfolio of the Church of England.While some of these infusions are more warranted than others, one thing seems clear: people are very interested in CBD and its massive medical properties, ranging from pain relief, to treating the symptoms of epilepsy, to reducing anxiety, to helping with acne.
But how popular is CBD really? Is it just a thing of the media? Does CBD showing up at gas stations and shoe stores mean people are really that in it? Or is there some overbuilt hype?
To find out, I asked cannabisMD to share some stats out of its Knowledge Navigator, just to come up with a fun weekend read.
According to cannabisMD’s data, CBD is among the most popular things on the Internet, only outranked by a few keywords like PornHub and Halloween right now.
Meanwhile, dozens of other very popular topics are lagging behind the buzzing chemical compound found in cannabis and hemp.
Let’s take a look at the findings. But before, a quick look at how the company arrived at these conclusions:
cannabisMD, a non-advocacy educational platform, used its Knowledge Navigator, a backend tool used to survey consumer trends, to gauge the interest in CBD and THC on the Internet. Using data pulled from user searches across the web, including over 12,000 URLs, along with social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, the company arrived at the following conclusions (charted on a 2-year time period, pitting CBD against each subjec below).

        CBD vs Pornhub
      

        CBD vs. Joker
      

        CBD vs. Impossible Burger
      

        CBD vs Playboy
      

        CBD vs South Park
      

        CBD vs Kanye West
      

        CBD vs Taylor Swift
      

        CBD vs THC
      

        CBD vs Keto Diet
      

        CBD vs Jesus
      

        CBD vs Aspirin
      

        CBD vs Taiwan Protests
      

        CBD vs Adventure Time
      

        CBD vs That NBC Peacock 
      

        CBD vs Modern Family
      

        CBD vs HBO Max
      

        CBD vs NBA
      

        CBD vs World Series Baseball
      

        CBD vs Halloween
      

        CBD vs Monday Night Football
      

        CBD vs Sexy Halloween Costumes
      

        CBD vs 5g
      

        CBD vc AOC
      

        CBD vs Voting
      

        CBD vs Pixel 4
      

        CBD vs The Beatles
      

        CBD vs. Lil Nas X
      

        CBD vs. Will Smith
      
Surprised with these results?
