
# Honda India records sales of 10,010 units in October 2019

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:30:16+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/honda-india-records-sales-of-10010-units-in-october-2019/)

Honda India recorded a sale number of 10,010 units in October 2019. The sale number is down by 4,177 units as the company sold 14,187 units in the corresponding month last year. The export sales stand at 633 units for October 2019.
Commenting on the sales, Rajesh Goel, Senior Vice President and Director - Sales and Marketing, Honda Cars India Ltd said, "The festive season was rewarding for the auto sector after a prolonged slowdown. The high discounts and other festive offers provided by automakers across the industry resulted in positive consumer sentiment. At Honda, we also saw an increased sales momentum as compared to last few months and are hopeful that this trend will continue in the following months."
Currently, Honda cars India has nine products in its portfolio - Brio, Amaze, Jazz, WR-V, City, BR-V, Civic, CR-V and the Accord. And the company also unveiled India bound next-generation Honda Jazz at this years Tokyo Motor Show. The company has also been spotted testing the next-generation Honda City in the international markets which is likely to be unveiled at the Delhi Auto Expo in 2020. The possible addition of the new sedan and hatchback could help the company bring its sales number up in the first quarter of 2020.

        2019 Honda City petrol BSVI to launch soon
      

        Tokyo Motor Show 2019: India-bound 2020 Honda Jazz unveiled
      
