
# Dermot Shea Appointed New N.Y.P.D. Commissioner as O’Neill Resigns

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:10:50+00:00**

Author: **Ashley Southall and Ali Watkins**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/nyregion/nypd-commissioner-james-oneill-resigns.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

When James P. O’Neill became New York City’s police commissioner in 2016, his challenge was clear: continue to shift the department away from aggressive policing tactics, including the “stop-and-frisk” practice, while maintaining historically low crime rates.
Mr. O’Neill announced on Monday that he was stepping down, having largely executed that strategy, with murder rates at lows not seen since the 1950s. He focused on healing relations between the department and minority communities with a policing program that sought to build trust between officers and residents.
But Mr. O’Neill also came under criticism from police unions for what they saw as his failure to defend the rank and file from Mayor Bill de Blasio’s progressive policies. At the same time, Mr. O’Neill earned the ire of some black and Hispanic leaders for delays in disciplining police officers who were accused of misconduct.
Perhaps the defining moment of his tenure came in August when he fired Officer Daniel Pantaleo, who had placed Eric Garner in a lethal chokehold five years earlier.
At a City Hall news conference, Mayor de Blasio praised Mr. O’Neill for improving ties between the police and some neighborhoods.
“He led a transformation that many people felt was impossible,” Mr. de Blasio said. “The relationship between our community and police is fundamentally different today than it was just a few years ago.”
To replace Mr. O’Neill, Mr. de Blasio turned to another longtime official in the department with a similar background and policing philosophy — Dermot F. Shea, the current chief of detectives, who in his prior role oversaw the use of data-driven analysis to develop policing strategies.

        [
        
          Dermot Shea: What to Know About the N.Y.P.D.’s Next Commissioner
        
        ]
      
Commissioner O’Neill, who is 62, said there was not one factor that led to his departure. He noted that he was “not getting any younger” and wanted to spend more time with family.
Mr. de Blasio said Mr. O’Neill was leaving to take a job in the private sector.
“It’s something I couldn’t pass up,” the commissioner said, without elaborating.
Mr. O’Neill said his decision to leave had nothing to do with his firing of Officer Pantaleo, a call he said he agonized over but defended as “the right thing.”
The dismissal of Officer Pantaleo in August drew praise from Mr. Garner’s family members and their supporters, but it angered police union officials, who said Commissioner O’Neill had lost the confidence of officers. Arrest rates briefly dropped in the weeks that followed.
Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, said Mr. O’Neill had success in navigating the difficult political terrain facing all police leaders in recent years, as the Black Lives Matter movement has generated outrage over deaths of people in police custody.
“Policing the largest city in the country, he has had to face that issue, balancing community trust with motivating his own personnel,” Mr. Wexler said. “Sometimes those things are in conflict.”
Chief Shea, who will take over on Dec. 1, will step into his role at a critical moment for the Police Department, which on Jan. 1 will be forced to comply with the most significant criminal justice reforms on bail and trial discovery that the city has seen in decades.
His tenure also begins as the department wrestles with its own internal crisis — 11 current or former New York police officers have committed suicide in the last 10 months.
Chief Shea, 50, is the son of Irish immigrants in Queens who, like Mr. O’Neill, started his career patrolling a precinct in the Bronx. He, too, had his own decades-long ascent through the ranks, most recently leading the Police Department’s pivot toward data-driven policing and its CompStat program.
Both were promoted to senior positions under Mr. O’Neill’s predecessor, William J. Bratton.
“Dermot is one of the best-prepared incoming police commissioners this city has ever seen,” Mr. de Blasio said. “Dermot brings a wealth of leadership experience, and he knows what policing needs to be in the 21st century.”
For his part, Chief Shea promised to continue Mr. O’Neill’s policies, noting that the department had lowered crime rates while making fewer arrests and reducing the number of people in jail.
“We have done what many thought was impossible,” he said. “The blueprint, I think, is here. I think it’s time to build upon it.”
But Chief Shea’s appointment did not please some critics of the department who are seeking to further reduce the number of people in jails and prisons.
Public defenders pointed out that Chief Shea expanded the detective bureau’s gang database, which they said improperly labels thousands of black and Latino teenagers and young adults as gang members.
“This will be more of the same, and our clients — New Yorkers from communities of color — will continue to suffer more of the same from a police department that prioritizes arrests and summonses above all else,” said Tina Luongo, who leads the criminal defense practice at the Legal Aid Society.
Chief Shea has also drawn fire from advocates for rape victims, who say he has done too little as chief of detectives to fix what they say are understaffing and other systemic problems in the Special Victims Division, which have led to poorly conducted investigations.
Mr. de Blasio came to office promising police reform. But after the assassination of two officers in 2014 and protests of the mayor by fellow officers at their funerals, the mayor largely delegated policing policy to his commissioners, first Mr. Bratton and then Mr. O’Neill.
With the choice of Chief Shea — another of Mr. Bratton’s acolytes — the mayor appears to have decided again that continuity is the best political choice, one that would open him up to less criticism should New York City’s long trajectory of declining crime begin to reverse.
Commissioner O’Neill’s neighborhood policing program made building relationships with people a key part of how officers fought crime. It shifted the emphasis away from aggressive enforcement of low-level offenses, which had been the department’s longtime tactic for bringing down overall crime.
The Police Department billed it as the biggest strategy shift in more than 20 years and said its goal was to minimize the collateral damage to communities and officers while continuing to drive down serious crime.
Public officials and community leaders in black and Latino neighborhoods, which had been harmed by decades of aggressive enforcement practices, said the program helped chip away at tensions.
But the program’s effectiveness has been limited by a perception that some officers who have been accused of misconduct or brutality have gone unpunished, a problem that Officer Pantaleo came to symbolize.
Arrests have been gradually declining throughout Commissioner O’Neill’s tenure. Still, he struggled to overcome public fears of rising crime.
Those fears have been exacerbated by the rise of hate crimes and mass killings nationwide. A little over a year after Commissioner O’Neill was appointed, a man inspired by the Islamic State used a pickup truck to kill 11 people in the deadliest terror attack in New York City since Sept. 11, 2001. And the city has recorded rising hate crime reports since the 2016 election season.
At times, Commissioner O’Neill has voiced frustration over what he saw as the lack of attention to how much safer the city has become. Along with the mayor, he has sought to emphasize that the Police Department has continued a trend of declining crime rates even after it adopted a lighter touch.
Commissioner O’Neill also oversaw the rollout of the largest police body-camera program in the world, though the transparency it was supposed to bring was short-circuited in legal battles that stopped him from releasing footage.
He made good-will gestures toward groups that had been alienated by the police, apologizing to the L.G.B.T.Q. community for the department’s handling of the Stonewall uprising in 1969 and issuing a public apology to a woman who was maligned by police officials after she had been raped in Prospect Park.
Mr. O’Neill showed a willingness to enlist outside help in developing policies and addressing problems. Last year, the Police Department held a two-day conference to discuss racial inequalities in policing and other city services.
He also opened the department’s opaque discipline process to outside review, met with advocates for rape victims and solicited public feedback that helped shape the department’s body-camera policy.
Officials, lawyers and activists who have been critical of the department said they appreciated his overtures, even if they did not think he had gone far enough to rectify what they saw as shortcomings in the department.
“There’s a feeling that O’Neill is someone we can work with,” Councilman Donovan J. Richards, a Queens Democrat who is the chairman of the City Council’s public safety committee. “Whether reforms happen in a perfect manner or not, he’s at least kept the door ajar for everybody to talk to him.”
Mr. O’Neill appeared upbeat on Monday, speaking with a lightness that had historically escaped him at the department’s podium. He joked about the job’s personal toll and thanked the department’s press corps for treating him with respect, despite his frequent sparring with reporters.
He became emotional, however, as he recited the names of the officers killed in the line of duty on his watch.
He said he would miss the job. Despite having risen to the top of department, he said he had always considered himself a police officer. “I’m going to miss it. I really am,” he said. “I love being a cop.”
William K. Rashbaum, J. David Goodman and Jeffery C. Mays contributed reporting.

        Continue reading the main story
      
