
# Lionel Messi names his suggested replacement for Ernesto Valverde at Barcelona

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:51:41+00:00**

Author: **Atharva Khadilkar**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/03/lionel-messi-names-suggested-replacement-ernesto-valverde/)

Levante claimed a famous victory over Barcelona at the Ciutat de Valencia on Saturday afternoon. The hosts beat the visiting side by a 3-1 margin, courtesy of a blitz of goals in just eight second half minutes post the hour mark. Lionel Messi who had scored the lead-getting penalty for the Catalans had a goal disallowed by VAR, though correctly.
Granada and Real Madrid also slipped in their respective matches, but Barca now top La Liga Santander only on goal difference. Ernesto Valverde’s job has always been under scrutiny and this defeat only went on to tighten the screws on the Basque manager’s future. This was the third defeat for his side in 11 league outings this season.
Diario GOL has reported that Lionel Messi now wants the Blaugrana boss fired as soon as possible. The Argentina international has never been a fan of the ex-Athletic Bilbao coach and believes that a defeat to a lowly team like Levante, plus some narrow and laborious wins over smaller opposition like Slavia Praha must be enough for the board to cast the die.
Barcelona legend Ronald Koeman, who was the former Everton manager and is currently managing the Netherlands’ national team is wanted by Lionel Messi. The Dutchman is seen in good eyes by not just Barca’s captain, but is also looked up to by other senior players like Luis Suarez and Gerard Pique who support his appointment.
Ernesto Valverde will have to prove his credentials and probably save his job until December 18, when Barcelona host Real Madrid in the Camp Nou in the postponed El Clasico clash that was originally scheduled for October 26. However, prior to that as well, the Catalans have fixtures against Inter Milan, Borussia Dortmund and Atletico Madrid to play.
Who do you think would be the best replacement for Ernesto Valverde at the Camp Nou?
