
# How To Watch UFC 244: Masvidal vs. Diaz

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/02/how-to-watch-ufc-244-masvidal-vs-diaz/)


        
          This story was written in collaboration with 
        
        
          
            Forbes Finds
          
        
        
          . Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
        
      
The UFC makes its return to Madison Square Garden for the UFC 244 pay-per-view card on Saturday, November 2. The event, which streams on ESPN+, is headlined by a welterweight contest between Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz. 
Neither Masvidal or Diaz holds a title at this time, but when their bout comes to an end on Saturday, the winner of the contest will get the “BMF” belt wrapped around his waist by Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson. If you’ve never heard of the BMF title, that’s okay, it’s a title that Diaz invented after his win over Anthony Pettis at UFC 241. (The “B” stands for “Baddest” and “MF” speaks for itself.)
“The reason I was off was because everybody sucks,” Diaz told UFC commentator Joe Rogan. “There was nobody to fight. With this belt, I want to defend it against . . . Jorge Masvidal had a good last fight, good last fight. All respect to the man, but there ain’t no gangsters in this game anymore. There ain’t nobody who does it right but me and him. So I know my man’s a gangster, but he ain’t no West Coast gangster.”
The belt Diaz referred to was the BMF belt, which he described at the postfight press conference.
“This is the fight game,” Diaz said. “Quit acting like this is a professional sport. (Take) whatever they want to give me? No, I’m going to take what’s mine. That’s what I’m talking about, the baddest mother[expletive] title. I need that belt made as soon as possible.”
The UFC liked the Masvidal callout, it also honored Diaz’s request to make the belt. Diaz’s win over Pettis, who is the former UFC lightweight champion, came nearly three years after Diaz last fought. 
Masvidal, meanwhile, is in the running for “Comeback Fighter of the Year.” He has struggled to find consistency throughout his career. Plagued by a long list of split decision defeats, Masvidal has scored back-to-back “Performance of the Night” bonus-winning knockouts over Darren Till and Ben Askren. His July flying-knee KO of Askren ended that fight in five seconds to set the record for the fastest stoppage in UFC history.
In the co-main event of UFC 244, Kelvin Gastelum welcomes Darren Till to the UFC middleweight division.
UFC 244 takes place Saturday, November 2, 2019, at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The pay-per-view card streams on ESPN+ at 10 p.m. ET. Prelims begin at 8 p.m. ET on ESPN2 following the early prelims which start at 6:30 p.m. ET on ESPN+, and UFC Fight Pass.
Jorge Masvidal vs. Nate Diaz   
Kelvin Gastelum vs. Darren Till   
Stephen Thompson vs. Vicente Luque  
Derrick Lewis vs. Blagoy Ivanov   
Kevin Lee vs. Gregor Gillespie   

        Preliminary Card (ESPN2 8 p.m. ET)
      
Corey Anderson vs. Johnny Walker   
Shane Burgos vs. Makwan Amirkhani  
Brad Tavares vs. Edmen Shahbazyan   
Andrei Arlovski vs. Jairzinho Rozenstruik   
Jennifer Maia vs. Katlyn Chookagian  
Lyman Good vs. Chance Rencountre   
Julio Arce vs. Hakeem Dawodu 
