
# AJ Pritchard 'confused' over Strictly judges' claims of missing element during routine

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:34:03+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/aj-pritchard-confused-over-strictly-20819018)

AJ Pritchard has confessed he felt his latest performance on Strictly Come Dancing with celebrity partner Saffron Barker deserved a higher score from the judges.
He also shared his confusion over Bruno Tonioli's claims the action-packed routine lacked hip action.
Last weekend, the pair's Salsa to the track Instruction scored them an overall mark of 27 points.
Criticism included Shirley Ballas feeling it needed a figure of eight, with also mention of there maybe being too much in the routine.
But one thing there wasn't enough of, according to Bruno, was hip action.
Now, AJ has confessed he failed to see what Bruno meant by this with him seeing plenty of hip in the routine from Saffron.
It Takes Two host Ryan Clark-Neal also shared his puzzled reaction to the remarks, with him too sure he had noticed plenty of hip movement.
As Rylan couldn't understand where Bruno was coming from, AJ said: "I was a bit confused myself."
Of the score, he told Saffron: "I was a little bit sad, I felt like you could have got a higher mark."
On comments over whether there was too much content going on, AJ defended their performance and said it would have been "boring" if done differently.
He said: "I loved the dance and I think on the night, if we took stuff out to make it slower or more boring then it'd be boring."
Saffron also said she was "proud" of the routine and how they performed it despite the comments.
The pair made it through another week surviving the dreaded dance-off, as another couple was sent home.
This week it was Emma Weymouth and Aljaž Škorjanec who lost out, with Katya Jones and Mike Bushell being saved by the judges.
Strictly Come Dancing continues Saturday night on BBC One, with the results show on Sunday .
