
# Police probing Vote Leave Brexit campaign 'spending breaches' pass file to prosecutors

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:33:55+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/police-probing-vote-leave-brexit-20794471)

Police have sent a file to prosecutors concerning allegations against the official campaign for Brexit.
Scotland Yard has sought ‘early investigative advice’ from the Crown Prosecution Service over claims about Vote Leave’s spending in the run-up to the 2016 referendum.
The Electoral Commission referred the matter to police in July 2018 when it fined Vote Leave £61,000 for breaking electoral law.
At the time, the Commission indicated police would look at “whether any persons have committed related offences which lie outside the Commission’s regulatory remit.”
The Met Police have now confirmed that they sent a file for “early investigative advice” to the CPS on October 17.
The move was first reported by the OpenDemocracy website.
Vote Leave was backed by high profile MPs including Boris Johnson and his senior aide Dominic Cummings was its campaign director.
Police and prosecutors have not arrested or charged anyone with a criminal offence, and senior figures from Vote Leave strongly deny criminal wrongdoing.
 
Seeking early investigative advice is a standard procedure for “serious, sensitive or complex” cases, according to guidance from the Director of Public Prosecutions.
It can also be used in “any case where a police supervisor considers it would be of assistance in helping to determine the evidence that will be required to support a prosecution or to decide if a case can proceed to court.”
A Scotland Yard spokesman said: “On Thursday, 17 October 2019 the MPS submitted a file to the CPS for Early Investigative Advice in relation to the second investigation, which followed a referral from the Electoral Commission on 17 July 2018 and concerns Vote Leave and BeLeave.”
In its investigation last year, the Commission slammed Vote Leave's decision to hand more than £600,000 to a then 23-year-old fashion student - which his group BeLeave spent on a data analytics and voter targeting firm.
The donation to Darren Grimes, days before the 2016 referendum, meant Vote Leave did not breach its £7million spending limit.
But in its original report the Commission said there was "significant evidence of joint working" between Mr Grimes and Vote Leave. 
That meant Vote Leave should have declared the spending as its own, the watchdog said.
However, Mr Grimes later won an appeal overturning a separate £20,000 fine imposed on him personally by the Commission.
Mr Grimes said he was registered as an individual due to an “incorrectly ticked box on an application form” and said in July: “I am delighted and relieved that the court has found me innocent.”
The separate Leave.EU campaign had also previously faced a criminal probe but police dropped it with no charges being brought.
Senior Vote Leave figures did not comment when contacted by the Mirror.
