
# The Legend Of Vox Machina Grows Towards Amazon

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rob Wieland**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/robwieland/2019/11/05/the-legend-of-vox-machina-grows-towards-amazon/)

One of the main pillars of the Dungeons & Dragons resurgence is the rise of livestreaming. Groups playing D&D on Twitch, YouTube and other platforms has broken down one of the biggest obstacles to learning how to play the game. No longer do prospective adventurers have to seek out a gaming group or build one with their own two hands. Livestreaming also keeps fans of the game connected if real life has interfered with their ability to get a group together.The livestream show at the top of this pillar is Critical Role. The show began in 2015 with a crew of voice actors who had been running a game for two years. Felicia Day approached them to continue the game on camera as part of the livestream movement as part of Geek & Sundry programming. The show’s popularity exploded as it became the leading livestream show, spinning off into D&D sourcebooks, live shows and inspired millions to try Dungeons & Dragons both on and off screen.
Critical Role ascended to new heights when it broke away from Geek & Sundry earlier this year. They soon launched a Kickstarter to create an animated special about the adventures of the first campaign before it was televised. The Kickstarter raised over 11 million dollars and expanded what was going to be a single special into a 10-part limited series called The Legend of Vox Machina.
Today, the show’s reach expanded even more. Variety announced Critical Role had locked in a deal not just to distribute the series but had ordered additional episodes to expand it from 10 to 24 episodes and two seasons. The backers will still get the first look at the series without the need to sign on to Amazon Prime, according to a Kickstarter update posted about the deal.
In addition, the Critical Role crew will continue playing their second, current campaign as well as short side shows exploring other tabletop RPGs. They’ve signed a deal with Amazon Studios to develop more shows which may or may not stem from their RPG work.
The main takeaway here is that Dungeons & Dragons has transformed from something mocked or feared to a key part of an identity of a demographic desired by studios and advertisers. Wizards of the Coast hosts yearly release announcement parties that are half game convention, half Comic-Con hype fest. Celebrities frequently appear on Critical Role, and its stars have become ambassadors for D&D to the masses. A perfect example of this is the show’s Dungeon Master, Matt Mercer, running a short adventure for late night king Stephen Colbert as part of the Red Nose Day fundraising push. Colber is no stranger to D&D, having written a short essay on it for D&D: 30 Years of Adventure released in 2004.
Deals like this mark the continuing upward trend of Dungeons & Dragons. The game’s current edition has been a hit for Wizards of the Coast thanks to its accessibility and ability to adapt earlier editions. A pop culture boost from Stranger Things also helped to push the game into its new golden era. With the deal in place from Amazon Studios, Critical Role looks to push the pillars of the D&D renaissance even higher.
