
# Salman Khan predicts successful political career for Khesari Lal Yadav after Bigg Boss show, fight erupts between Tehseen Poonawalla and Hindustani Bhau

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:46:08+00:00**

Author: **JKR Staff**

Original: [Janta Ka Reporter](http://www.jantakareporter.com/entertainment/salman-khan-predicts-successful-political-career-for-khesari-lal-yadav-after-bigg-boss-show-fight-erupts-between-tehseen-poonawalla-and-hindustani-bhau/271297/)

Sunday night saw Salman Khan crack jokes at the expense of wild card contestants, who entered the house. They included Hindustani Bhau, Arhaan Khan, Shefali Jariwala, Khesari Lal Yadav, Himanshi Khurana and Tehseen Poonawalla. Welcoming Khesari, Bigg Boss host Salman Khan predicted that the popular Bhojpuri star was destined to have a successful political future after he left the Bigg Boss show.
He reminded Khesari that prior to his participation in the Colors TV reality TV show, several other Bhojpuri film stars such as Manoj Tiwari, Ravi Kishan, Dinesh Lal Yadav aka Nirahua had also taken part in the show. Salman said that Tiwari, Kishan, Nirahua had embarked on a successful political career after joining the BJP.
While Tiwari, now the BJP’s Delhi unit chief, and Kishan have gone on to become the Members of Parliament on BJP tickets, Nirahua failed to win the elections.
Soon after housemates familiarised with each other, they were asked to name one housemate who was the least deserved to stay in the competition. Aarti Singh polled the most votes. However, Bigg Boss added the twist in the game by announcing that Aarti had become the new captain of the house as the housemates embarked on the new season.
