
# Cardiff City boss Neil Warnock makes Birmingham City claim as striker makes Blues vow

Published at: **2019-11-02T04:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/cardiff-city-boss-neil-warnock-17187861)

Birmingham City travel to Cardiff City searching for a third Championship win on the bounce.
Successive victories over Blackburn Rovers and Luton Town have put Pep Clotet’s side to within touching distance of the play-offs – and even the automatic spots – although there is plenty of traffic to bypass in between.
Cardiff, meanwhile, will be keen to muster a response to last weekend's derby day defeat to Swansea City.
Here is the Blues XI we expect to see today:

        Read more here.
      
Clotet has been hugely impressed with the way Lukas Jutkiewicz has adapted to the new-look Birmingham City.
The 30-year-old striker will lead the line against Cardiff looking to add to his four goals for the season including the winner against Luton Town last time out.
Having provided the perfect foil for Che Adams under Garry Monk – and racking up his best ever season figures in the process – Jutkiewicz has remained the focal point of the attacking line for Blues, who have undergone a transformation in playing style.
Blues are looking to bring in a new option upfront in January but Clotet says the burly centre-forward is as important as ever to the club.

        Read more here.
      
Birmingham City are “flying” under Clotet and will prove difficult to break down, according to Neil Warnock.
Some supporters were questioning Warnock’s future at Cardiff after that Swansea loss left them 14th in the table with just four wins this season.
All four of those wins have come at home, though, where Warnock’s side are unbeaten in their six Championship games this season.
Clotet’s men will have to be at their best, having won just two of their seven away outings. Birmingham do go into the game with three wins from four and two points off the top six.

        Read more here.
      
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
Warnock has confirmed Cardiff have a number of injury concerns.
The hosts, who were beaten by rivals Swansea last weekend, will be without striker Robert Glatzel who picked up a hamstring problem in that game.
The 25-year-old was a £5.5m signing for the Bluebirds from Heidenheim in the summer and has scored two Championship goals so far.
Confirming the injury blow, Warnock told Wales Online: “Glatzel’s out for a couple of weeks with a hamstring and there are one or two other problems.
“He’s had some rough luck. He scored a great goal at West Brom and saw it wrongly disallowed. You need a bit of luck as a striker.
“Even by Robert's standards he’ll be disappointed with how last week went. The rest might actually do him a bit of good in getting him back firing.”
A 'mysterious' injury prevented midfielder Lee Tomlin from playing any part in the Swansea clash and looks set to keep him sidelined against Blues.

        Read more here.
      
 
Cardiff are aiming to bounce back according to striker Danny Ward, who told Cardiff's official website: "We’re disappointed whenever we lose a match.
"But when it’s such a big game like it was against Swansea City, and with it meaning so much to our supporters, it adds even more to it.
“We’ve seen where we went wrong and now we’re looking to making it right on Saturday."

        Read more here.
      
 
