
# The concerning omission of a difference-making Barcelona superstar

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:25:32+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/06/the-concerning-omission-of-arthur-melo/)

Arthur Melo had started the season on a strong note and unlike last season, showed that he could play for the entirety of the match.  But recently the Brazilian struggled to make it through in a rotational policy at Barcelona.
The coach did not have the Brazilian in his plans for facing Real Valladolid at home which saw the squad having a comfortable 5-1 victory over the visitors. Arturo did return for the following La Liga match against Levante which ended in a devastating loss for the Spanish Champions. The ex-Grêmio player has been snubbed out of another chance to prove his worth as he fails to feature against Slavia Prague
Arthuro has been featured alongside Frankie De Jong on many occasions this season, forcing the likes of Sergio Busquets, Ivan Rakitic, Arthuro Vidal and Carles Aleñá to fight for minutes and a spot in the Barca midfield.
The previous encounter with Slavia Prague saw the Brazilian make the same mistakes as in the Saturday’s match against Levante. The midfielder failed to perform up to the expectations of the coach. Both the teams mentioned had their players press Barcelona in the center of the field which Arthuro failed to cope with as he could not manage the pace of the possession on his side of the field. He also struggled with connecting his passes and building up the chemistry with the players around him.
It is perhaps for these reasons that Valverde has decided to omit the Brazilian and opt for other midfielders such as Vidal or Rakitic, or even give youngster Carles Aleñá a chance to challenge for the midfield positions.
Currently, there are no reasons to believe this decision was anything but a technical one by coach Valverde but that doesn’t eliminate the fact that Arthur, for the second time in three games, has not been named on the team sheet. These are not good signs for a player many considered as the next Xavi and who is still a prominent part of the clubs future.
What are your thoughts on Valverde’s decision to not play Arthur?
