
# Useful WhatsApp Features You Didn’t Know Existed

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:44:40+00:00**

Author: **Wycliffe**

Original: [KahawaTungu](https://www.kahawatungu.com/2019/11/07/useful-whatsapp-features-you-didnt-know-existed/)

Instant messaging application, WhatsApp, has in the last few days left many smiling with the introduction of privacy features that many users have been demanding for years.
This week, the Facebook-owned platform announced the rollout of a Group feature that will prevent administrators from adding WhatsApp users to groups without consent.
The new Group feature as reported earlier is available on the latest update of Android and iOS devices. You can enable it by navigating to Settings in your app, then tap Account > Privacy > Groups and select one of three options: “Everyone,” “My Contacts,” or “My Contacts Except.”
Besides this amazing feature, there are other features that WhatsApp introduced recently to better your experience.

        Fingerprint Lock for Android
      
The fingerprint feature for Android phones is barely a month old.  It was launched on October 31.
Read: WhatsApp Finally Rolls Out Feature To Prevent Admins From Adding You To Groups Without Consent
WhatsApp launched it to provide an extra layer of security for its users to prevent other people from snooping on their messages.
The feature allows users with Android-powered devices to unlock the app with their fingerprint, on supported Android phones.
To enable it, tap Settings > Account > Privacy > Fingerprint lock. Turn on Unlock with fingerprint, and confirm your fingerprint.
Related technology is available for iPhone users through Touch ID and Face ID features that were rolled out early this year.
