
# Love birds Pulkit Samrat and Kriti Kharbanda pose for pictures together as the get snapped outside Anees Bazmee's office

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:14:16+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/love-birds-pulkit-samrat-and-kriti-kharbanda-pose-for-pictures-together-as-the-get-snapped-outside-anees-bazmees-office/articleshow/71913866.cms)

Bollywood actors Pulkit Samrat and Kriti Kharbanda have been keeping their relationship under the wraps but their chemistry is quite evident whenever they step out together! In a recent interview with Etimes, Kriti revealed that she finds Pulkit very hot. When asked about their dating rumours, the actress didn’t deny or accept the relationship.
The duo was recently snapped at Anees Bazmee's office in the city. Kriti looked absolutely pretty in a blue dress while Pulkit was in an-all black look! They were all smiles as they posed together for the paparazzi. The rumoured couple looked happy and in a good mood while pictures were being clicked.
Check out the photos here:
The beauty had even celebrated her birthday recently with the 'Fukrey' actor and he also took to his social media accounts to share an adorable birthday wish for his lady love.
Meanwhile, on the work front, they will be next seen in Anees Bazmee's 'Pagalpanti'. The multi-starrer features John Abraham, Anil Kapoor, Ileana D'Cruz, Urvashi Rautela and Arshad Warsi in the lead. The film is set to hit the screens on November 22.
