
# Magnussen looks to P5 in 2018 for confidence boost

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:44:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49578/magnussen-looks-to-p5-in-2018-for-confidence-boost.html)


        Kevin Magnussen has admitted 2019 has been very challenging for the Haas F1 team but the Dane is looking to their 2018 results for confidence, insisting "that was a pretty impressive thing to be doing".
      
It has been a tough season on and off the track for Haas this season. After being one of the favourites for best of the rest, they've massively underwhelmed, only beating Williams in the Constructors' Championship and Magnussen's P9 in Sochi is the team's only points since the summer break. They've also been plagued by the whole William Storey Rich Energy saga.
Despite a rocky season, Magnussen wants to remind people of their impressive form last season. 
“We’ve had an off-year this year, which isn’t great, but we finished fifth in the championship last year which isn’t easy,” said Magnussen as quoted by Motorsport Week.

        “That was a pretty impressive thing to be doing in the third year of the team.
      

        “Toro Rosso have never done it, never finished fifth, so we’ve already finished higher than Toro Rosso has ever done. Very quickly people start to forget that, and even we do, we want more all the time.
      

        “Sometimes it’s good to just stop and look back and see we have actually done really well and we can do that again.”
      
