
# How to navigate and overcome social anxiety in children

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/parenting/toddler-year-and-beyond/how-to-navigate-and-overcome-social-anxiety-in-children/articleshow/71839180.cms)

Social anxiety is an epidemic, a virtually non-existing phobia of overwhelming fear, terror which centers on feeling anxious in social situations. The people with social anxiety disorder ensures that the inner light will never return, light has come into their world any at times, but people loved darkness instead because they might face the “denial of acceptance” again from the world.
It is not easy to insert our own colorful adjectives in the environment. It takes strenuous efforts to erase the fallacious belief portrayed and paint our own reality. Social anxiety often becomes a dark, glooming canvas which we make sense in our environment and can be incredibly harmful and contagious to our existence.
Have you ever wondered if your child is suffering and victimized from same situation?? Does your child keep complain about bullying and non-acceptance? Well than it is a serious issue, if ignored can in turn exacerbate the risk of poor mental health and well-being.
Social anxiety can cause significantly distress for children and can generate a feeling of disconnectedness from the world around them because it is harder than ever for your children to get the attention of social-bound and being constantly scrutinized by the social environment.
No parents want to see their children upset and dealing with excessive fear of being judged, embarrassments, poorly treated by other children’s of their age, ridicule and facing trouble in making friends in neighborhood or school and it is hard to have any solution or to know the best way to respond when the child is afraid and nervous to face them again.
Usually, the median age at onset of the phenomena is 13 years, and 75% of children have an age at onset between 8 and 15 years. The disorder can originate out of a childhood history of social inhibition or out of regular shyness but can also be triggered by a traumatic events, including constant bullying.

        How Parents can be a child’s greatest ally?
      
For all children, parents' support and acceptance have the strongest influence on children's ability to flourish. When children are chronically anxious, it is natural for any parent to go in protection mode and keep the child away from the difficulties. But it would be inappropriate and harmful for a child if parents enhance their parental control and set certain limitations to their children during the phase of phobia, instead become a friend to your child. A friendship with children plays a primary role in child’s development and encompasses all the power in the relationship. Supporting, enabling solutions and showing kindness to your child can influence all the aspects of his life and can enhance his decision making skills. Remember! Parent-child relationship really hinges on trust and this trust is the only power and a greatest ally to modify the child’s anxiousness. A strong foundation of trust and understanding between parent and child can help child exhibit optimistic and confident social behaviors. Healthy parent involvement, interactions and intervention in child’s day-to-day life, lays the fundamentals of better social understanding and academic skills.
So let us have a look, How Parents can help children with social anxiety disorder by understanding the nature of the disease and teaching them how to cope with their symptoms.
The essential nature of social anxiety (social phobia) is a persistence feeling of intense fear of being judged and scrutiny. The person dealing with social anxiety doesn’t allow himself to resume back to the normal life.
Here are some the symptoms parents can navigate in children
-Excessive loneliness and only clinging to the familiar people
-Traumatic events in children (Crying unnecessarily, failure to speak, unable to cope up with stress, or when faced with anxiety provoking social situations)
-Blaming parents and others for perceived poor social behaviors
-Too many absenteeism in school
-Not willing to make new friends
-Not willing to meet new people
-Complaining about people and their rude behavior

        How to help your child to overcome such menace
      
Teach your child to relax and cultivate peace within – Ask your child to make peace with the chaos within, which will help them to transform. Mindfulness meditation is an approach to serenity and will train their mind to be emotionally clear, attentive and helps cultivating self-awareness.
Imaginary Guide: Practice hypnosis with your children. Ask your child to take an imaginary adventure with an eyes closed along with engaging in a deep breathing. You can ask your child to imagine that his appearance and aura is different like an alpha leader in the movie and this is the reason why people might try to rain in their parade. You can always ask him to concentrate on the better side of the consequences and make him learn to move on.
Cognitive Reframing – A socially anxious children will always revolve around a negative belief that will reinforces their anxious thoughts. Their thought process will always be different from others, for instance – “Assuming worst”, “they will be judged always”, “filled with so much hatred”, “believing others will always make fun and treat them worst”, “Overacting”. You can ask your child to recognize their negative belief and modify into positive thoughts. While meeting any new or old people they must have positive thought to star well with a smile always. Also never learn to concentrate what others say negative about them instead avoid such toxic people and concentrate on their own skills.
Comprehensive Communication with your child – You can encourage your child to change like an alpha leader and help them grow into their curriculum and creative activities. You can talk about correcting their postures and body language in front of other kids, how they can be more appealing and how people can get attracted towards them. Ask your child to never pick up fights with those who are create mess and try to solving each matters with comprehensive communication. You can ask your child to make right friends with whom he can learn good things, good skills, and feel comfortable and happy.
Life-coach can also be the great Maven – If parents are unable to create a heightened level of trust and bounding with their children and unable to help them to deal with social anxiety than you can always seek a help of a life coach, who can help them discover, empower and improve the purpose of life.

        
          The article has been authored by Vaibhav Datar, Midlife Coach and Author of Bestseller, Simplify your Life.
        
      
