
# AMD Announces 3950X & Threadripper Processors

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:00:11+00:00**

Author: **Mike Sanders**

Original: [eTeknix](https://www.eteknix.com/amd-announces-3950x-threadripper-processors/)

So, following a delay from the November 5th launch date, AMD has just lifted the embargo and confirmed their launch of its new upcoming range of processors. Namely, the 3950X (‘the words most powerful 16 core desktop processor’) and their HEDT 3rd-generation Threadripper products!
So, without further ado, let’s delve in to see what we can find out about them!
With the launch of the 3950X, AMD is effectively completing the line-up for the 3XXX range of processor releases. It should be noted that rumours are circulating that one final 3750X may also be released. Despite that though, the 3950X is and will be the pinnacle of the 3rd-gen Ryzen family.
In announcing the release of the 3950X AMD has been very keen to highlight the performance difference between itself and Intel. What else is new though, right?
In addition, however, they have also (rather peculiarly) stated that it has been optimized for liquid cooling. We can only presume that means that it runs rather warm and, as such, some decent cooling solutions will be more than advantageous for it.
The AMD Ryzen 3950X will, as you might expect, retain the X570 chipset design that launched with the 3rd-generation Ryzen processors. You can click here for more information on those motherboard releases.
Based on the product slide below, the AMD Ryzen 3950X will have an MSRP of $749. Before you go rushing off to buy your own, however, these are not due to hit retail shelves for quite some time yet. There’s more on that further down, so keep reading!
To see how this may compare to other models in the range you can check out our review of those releases here or, indeed, the video below!
