
# Unmissable Football Action On SuperSport In November!

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:22:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/supersport/unmissable-football-action-on-supersport-in-november/666766)

The UEFA Champions League returns with some key clashes this week, but the football feast continues with many other great fixtures in November. Make sure you stay connected to DStv to watch the very best football from Europe's top competitions!

        Chelsea vs Ajax Amsterdam – SS3 (SA) & SS5 (ROA)
      

        Kick-off at 22:00 (CAT)
      

        UEFA Champions League, Tuesday 5 November
      
Both teams go into this match level on points at the top of Group H halfway through the group stage. With seven wins in their past eight matches and scoring 17 goals in the process, Frank Lampard's men have been in great form recently. The Blues will be hoping to cement their place at the top of the group with another victory over the Eredivisie champions.

        
          Don't miss out! Click here for more information on how you can watch all the biggest European clashes this season!
        
      

        Liverpool vs Manchester City – SS3
      

        Kick-off at 18:30 (CAT)
      

        Premier League, Sunday 10 November
      
It's the game every Premier League fan has been waiting for as the current table-toppers host the defending champions. The last league fixture between the teams was at the Etihad, and it had a significant bearing on an enthralling title race, with Pep Guardiola's team inflicting Liverpool's only defeat of the 2018/19 campaign. History is strongly in Liverpool's favour when it comes to clashes at Anfield, where they haven't lost a league game against City in 16 years. 

        Juventus vs AC Milan – SS9 (SA) & SS8 (ROA)
      

        Kick-off at 21:45 (CAT)
      

        Serie A, Sunday 10 November
      
Both clubs have illustrious histories but are experiencing very disparate seasons at present. Juventus have started strongly as they challenge for a ninth successive Serie A title (with Inter Milan mounting a strong challenge of their own). AC Milan, meanwhile, are languishing in mid-table, and will want to kick-start their season under newly appointed coach Stefano Pioli.

        Manchester City vs Chelsea – SS3
      

        Kick-off at 19:30 (CAT)
      

        Premier League, Saturday 23 November
      
Four of the last five Premier League titles have been won by these two clubs, and this fixture could have a meaningful impact on this year's title race as Manchester City look to keep the pressure on Liverpool. Chelsea look resurgent under Frank Lampard, and they will be looking to make amends for a 6-0 loss at the Etihad last season – their biggest-ever Premier League defeat.

        Real Madrid vs PSG – SS3
      

        Kick-off at 22:00 (CAT)
      

        UEFA Champions League, Tuesday 26 November
      
Real Madrid will be out for revenge at the Santiago Bernabeu in their first meeting with PSG since the French outfit's comfortable 3-0 win at the Parc des Princes in the opening matchday. Los Blancos, 13-time winners of the competition, will look to get out the group stage for the 23rd consecutive time. For Les Parisiens, winning the group could be important as they look to advance beyond the round of 16 for the first time since 2016. 

        FC Barcelona vs Borussia Dortmund
      

        Kick-off at 22:00 (CAT)
      

        UEFA Champions League, Wednesday 27 November
      
In an intriguing Group F that also includes Inter Milan, five-time champions Barcelona host 1997 winners Borussia Dortmund on Matchday Five. The Blaugrana could be in a position to secure a spot in the knockout stages with a result in this game, while Dortmund will be pushing to keep Inter at bay to avoid dropping into the Europa League.

        Liverpool vs Napoli
      

        Kick-off at 22:00 (CAT)
      

        UEFA Champions League, Wednesday 27 November
      
Liverpool have been dominating most teams domestically and abroad in the past season and a half, but Napoli have emerged as a bogey team for the Reds, with Carlo Ancelotti's team winning two of their past three meetings. Liverpool will be confident of victory at Anfield, where they haven't lost a Champions League game in five years.

        
          Get connected to DStv to enjoy the very best football from around the world. Catch all the latest Premier League, LaLiga, Serie A and the UEFA Champions League LIVE!
        
      
