
# Jurassic World 3 Will Bring Back 2 More Familiar Faces

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:56:07+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CINEMABLEND](https://www.cinemablend.com/news/2484242/jurassic-world-3-will-bring-back-2-more-familiar-faces)

Written By
We already know that after much hoping and pleading from fans and cast alike, Colin Trevorrow’s Jurassic World 3 will bring back Jeff Goldblum, Laura Dern and Sam Neill to reprise their roles from the original Jurassic Park. But the members of that original trio won’t be the only ones in this franchise returning to close out the Jurassic World trilogy. Jurassic World 3 is bringing back two more familiar faces: Justice Smith and Daniella Pineda.
The two actors made their franchise debuts in last year’s Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, and will reprise their roles in Jurassic World 3-- according to Collider. As you’ll recall, Justice Smith portrayed Franklin Webb, the systems analyst and go-to computer guy for Claire Dearing’s Dinosaur Protection Group. Daniella Pineda played Zia Rodriguez, another member of the DPG who served as the organization’s paleoveterinarian.
Plot details remain under wraps for Jurassic World 3, so it’s unknown what role the duo will play in the threequel. But with the dinosaurs now out in the wild after Fallen Kingdom, the DPG will have its work cut out for it. Maybe Justice Smith’s character can help catch ‘em all (that’s a Detective Pikachu reference folks).
Justice Smith and Daniella Pineda join a cast that includes faces of the franchise Bryce Dallas Howard, Chris Pratt, Sam Neill, Laura Dern and Jeff Goldblum. Also starring in Jurassic Park 3 are Isabella Sermon as Maisie Lockwood, BD Wong as mad scientist Dr. Wu, and franchise newcomers Mamoudou Athie and DeWanda Wise.
While we are all excited to see the return of the Jurassic Park OGs, it is cool that there will be some carryover from the rest of the Jurassic World franchise. Justice Smith’s Franklin Webb was delightfully awkward and anxiety-ridden. Daniella Pineda was also a nice addition to the franchise and proved quite capable in healing Blue, and I imagine her skills will be put to the test again in this third film before it’s over.
The cast is rounding out nicely for this climactic chapter in the Jurassic Saga(?) but I’ve got to say, with the original Jurassic Park trio returning, I’m still kind of hoping that Joseph Mazzello and Ariana Richards, who played kids Tim and Lex, can return as well, at least in cameo form. We don’t know what the future of this franchise is beyond this film so this might be the last chance to get the band back together.
We still have a ways to go until Jurassic World 3’s 2021 release date, but fortunately, we’ve already gotten a taste of what the third film in this highly successful franchise may have in store for audiences. Colin Trevorrow’s short film Battle At Big Rock gives us an idea of what a world with dinosaurs on the loose might be like.
Jurassic World 3 roars into theaters on June 11, 2021. That’s a ways off, so check out what movies are coming out next year in our 2020 Release Schedule.
Sign up below to receive our weekly email with the best content about movies, news and television from the team at CinemaBlend
