
# Andy Serkis Might Be The Batman’s Alfred Pennyworth

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:48:09+00:00**

Author: **Jake Abbate**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/471117-andy-serkis-might-be-the-batmans-alfred-pennyworth)

Every Bruce Wayne needs his Alfred, and it looks like Matt Reeves has just recruited another big name to fill this role in the character’s next film. The Wrap brings word that Andy Serkis is currently in talks to play the Dark Knight’s butler in The Batman.
Serkis is obviously no stranger to superhero movies, having played Ulysses Klaue in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. But right now, he’s gearing up to re-enter the comic book fold in a much different capacity. This summer, he was hired to direct Venom 2, which will hit theaters next year. The Batman will mark Serkis’ third collaboration with Reeves after he played Caesar in Dawn of the Planet of the Apes and War for the Planet of the Apes.
Much like Batman himself, plenty of actors have brought Alfred to life over the last several decades. Jeremy Irons starred as the latest big-screen iteration of the character in Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice and Justice League. Irons was preceded by Michael Caine in Christopher Nolan’s Dark Knight trilogy and Michael Gough in the Burton/Schumacher series. Alfred has also shown up on the small screen as well. There, he’s been played by the likes of Ian Abercrombie (Birds of Prey), Sean Pertwee (Gotham), and Jack Bannon (Pennyworth).
If everything goes according to plan, Serkis would join a star-studded cast that also includes Robert Pattinson (Bruce Wayne/Batman), Zoe Kravitz (Catwoman), Paul Dano (the Riddler), and Jeffrey Wright (Commissioner Gordon). The Batman flies into theaters on June 25, 2021.
What are your thoughts on Andy Serkis playing Alfred in the movie? Give us your impressions in the comment section below!

        Recommended Reading: Batman: The Court of Owls Saga
        
          We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
        
      
 
