
# England vs South Africa LIVE | Rugby World Cup final

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:18:24+00:00**

Author: **RugbyPass**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/england-vs-south-africa-live-rugby-world-cup-final)

Follow all the action on the RugbyPass live blog from the World Cup final match between England versus South Africa in Yokohama.
Keep up to date with the latest score, stats and join the conversation from anywhere in the world in our Live Match Centre (click here).
Here are five talking points heading into the climax to the ninth instalment of the tournament.

        Judgement day
      
Eddie Jones stated his only real goal from the moment he replaced Stuart Lancaster at the end of 2015 was to win the World Cup in Japan.
Now that moment has arrived courtesy of a staggering 19-7 demolition of New Zealand that has installed England as favourites to lift the Webb Ellis Trophy for the second time.
Jones has already constructed a team of which England can be proud, but victory on Saturday would place them in the pantheon alongside the heroes of 2003.

        (Continue reading below…)
      

        Click here to see the video
      

        What next for Eddie?
      
Win or lose, Jones’ future serves as a fascinating subplot to events in Yokohama. The 59-year-old has flatly refused to engage on what lies ahead for a coach who is at the very top of his game.
In reaching the final he has already exceeded the target needed to trigger the two-year extension agreed with Twickenham lasting until 2021, but there will now undoubtedly be moves to tie him down until the next World Cup in France.
Rudderless Australia are a genuine alternative as Jones has unfinished business with the Wallabies and Michael Cheika has left his post, but with most of the current England team set to be around for France 2023 and the Rugby Football Union happy to give him the resources he needs – even at a time of austerity for the governing body – he will surely stay.

        Fifty for Kolisi
      
Jones’ future may be laced with uncertainty but Springboks coach Rassie Erasmus has confirmed he will step down after the final. Just as significant, however, is the 50th cap that will be won by Siya Kolisi – the nation’s first black Test captain.
Rugby is viewed as a unifying force in South Africa and with the popular Kolisi at the helm, the nation has an inspirational figure to rally behind. Yet the appointment had far more humble origins.
Erasmus: “My plan never was this big thing to get the country behind us. Siya was actually the best Super Rugby-performing team captain and that’s the reason why he became captain of the Springboks.
“I was naive not to think it would be a massive thing. It’s his 50th Test and this is a fitting and wonderful occasion for him as the first black captain. Now it’s also sunk into me. I understand how big it is. I’m not so naive any more.”
