
# Strictly's 'Twirly' Shirley Ballas stuns with jaw-dropping throwback clip

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:34:17+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/strictlys-twirly-shirley-ballas-stuns-20805557)

She has had her fair share of stick from viewers this series, so anything Shirley Ballas can do to get people onside is worth a go.
The Strictly Come Dancing judge diverted a bit of attention but sharing an epic throwback ballroom clip - and she was straight away re-named Twirly Shirley!
The star shows maybe she has a right to be harsh on contestants after letting fans in on twitter.
She twists and spins in the vintage world dancing championship clip - and fans love it.
Fan Ashley Stebbings tweeted her with his amazing find and she enjoyed it, replying: "Where did you find this clip? Trip down memory lane" as she shared it with her 60,000 followers.
 
She certainly has the skills to be dishing out the advice in the studio.
But viewers still say her 'harsh' critique of Emma Barton isn't fair - even if she is well qualified to say what she sees.
"Don't deny she was a great dancer once upon a time but Strictly needs a judge who can be objective and not bring personal prejudices into their judgements," one wrote on twitter.
"She is amazing dancer but she is overly rude to certain contestants (usually pretty ones)" another said.
But one viewer wrote: "Absolutely outstanding dancing,when you see things like this you can understand why she is Head Judge."
Fans weren't happy about the treatment of EastEnder Emma on Saturday night.
One tweeted: "Am i f***ing missing something here? emma and anton danced brilliantly yet the judges haven’t barely given her one compliment. it’s a disgrace to hold them to a different level to everyone else on the show. #strictly."
While another commented: "Trying to figure out how Shirley can give Emma and anton a 5 and Mike a 8 she’s so biased! #strictly #StrictlyComeDancing."
