
# Game of Thrones spin-off House of the Dragon could be filmed in Scotland

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:52:26+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/game-thrones-spin-house-dragon-20802293)

A new Game of Thrones spin-off show could be filmed in Scotland. 
George RR Martin, who wrote the Game of Thrones books, sparked frenzy among GOT fans in his latest blog post. 
House of the Dragon could use Scottish locations used in the original series, according to Martin. 
In the post, The Dragons Take Wing, Martin toys with the possibility of making a return to Scotland among other locations across Europe. 
He wrote: “Ryan Condal has already done a considerable amount of writing on House of Dragon, but a lot of work remains ahead of us. 
“As yet, we don’t even know where we will be shooting . . . though I expect we will revisit at least some of the countries David and Dan used for Game of Thrones (Ireland, Iceland, Scotland, Croatia, Morocco, Malta and Spain.”
 
Initially when Game of Thrones crew started looking for locations, Scotland was on the list. 
Those who’ve watched the hit TV series since the beginning will remember one of Scotland’s most iconic castles from the very first episode. 
The 14th century Doune Castle in Stirling was used to depict Winterfell in the pilot for the series. 
Unfortunately this didn’t last long and film crews left Scotland soon after. 
Doune Castle isn't the only Scottish connection to GOT.
Earlier this year we told how two new limited edition Game of Thrones whiskies had been released.
The Johnnie Walker team and HBO are introducing two collaborations inspired by the iconic and powerful houses of Westeros – House Stark and House Targaryen – which are the successors to the White Walker by Johnnie Walker limited edition blend launched in 2018.
To read George Martin's full blog post visit http://georgerrmartin.com/notablog/
