
# New Titans Episode 2.10 Photos Feature Dick Grayson’s Life in Prison

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:26:05+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/news/471126-new-titans-episode-2-10-photos-feature-dick-graysons-life-in-prison)

DC Universe has released a new batch of photos for the upcoming Titans Episode 10. As we prepare for the series’ grand finale, next week we will get a closer look to Dick Grayson’s life in prison after his arrest for assaulting a couple of officers.
The synopsis for the next episode reads: “After his intentional attack on two police officers results in his arrest, Dick finally finds peace in a Nevada prison. But the hero he’s left behind has not been buried forever. Meanwhile, Rachel befriends a runaway girl and takes her under her wing – only to find that her own powers might not fully be under her control. Back at Titans Tower, Gar is reunited with Conner and Krypto, but when Mercy Graves sets her sights on retrieving “Subject 13” for Cadmus, Gar finds himself caught in the crossfire.”
You can check out the new Titans Episode 2.10 photos in the gallery below.
Titans follows a group of young heroes from across the DC Universe as they come of age in a gritty take on the classic Teen Titans franchise. Dick Grayson and Rachel Roth, a special young girl possessed by a strange darkness, get embroiled in a conspiracy. One that could bring Hell on Earth. With other heroes also joining them along the way, together they become a surrogate family and team of heroes.
Brenton Thwaites stars as Dick Grayson/Robin. Teagan Croft plays Raven, as well as Ryan Potter as Garfield “Gar” Logan, and Anna Diop as Koriand’r/Starfire. Alan Ritchson & Minka Kelly also star in the series as Hawk and Dove. Curran Walters and Conor Leslie join the full-time cast members as Robin and Wonder Girl, respectively.
Joshua Orpin joined the cast this season as Conner Kent/Superboy. Additionally, Chella Man portrays Joseph Wilson, with Chelsea Zhang as Rose Wilson. Esai Morales also stars in the series as Slade Wilson/Deathstroke.
The next episode of Titans will stream on November 8 on DC Universe.
