
# Nigerians condemn expulsion of student over Facebook post, demand reinstatement

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:03:15+00:00**

Author: **Ajala Samuel Akindele**

Original: [Premium Times Nigeria](https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/ssouth-west/360866-nigerians-condemn-expulsion-of-student-over-facebook-post-demand-reinstatement.html)

Several Nigerians have condemned the expulsion of Ifemosu Adewale, a student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, (FUNAAB) in Ogun State, over a Facebook post.
They also demanded his reinstatement.
PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported how FUNAAB expelled the student who drew the attention of the public to the alleged indiscriminate arrest of his colleagues by the police and incessant robbery attacks on the campus.
The student, in his second year at the Department of Forestry and Wildlife Management, was issued his expulsion letter on Friday.
Before the Facebook post that led to his expulsion, Mr Adewale was known on campus for a series of posts condemning alleged maladministration of the university including poor welfare on campus.
The university management in an expulsion letter to Mr Adewale said the article written by the student was “a misrepresentation of fact about the university.”
Other Nigerian students who have been punished in the past for airing their views include Olorunfemi Adeyeye, who was rusticated by the University of Lagos in 2016 and Kunle Adebajo, who was rusticated from University of Ibadan in 2018 over critical articles.

        Reactions
      
Nigerians on Sunday used the hashtag #JusticeForIfemosu and #ReinstateIfemosu to condemn the expulsion and demand his reinstatement.
EndSARS campaigner, Segun Awosanya, in his Twitter post, promised to take up the case.
“By the Almighty Grace of God we shall be taking up this case. The level of impunity in our citadel of knowledge is astronomical. An example will be made of this abuse of power by people who should know better. @SIAF_NG @citizen_gavel @PeluOlajengbesi @KcUzoka @AbdulMahmud01”
