
# The RCS hack for Android is starting to break

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:37:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/rcs-hack-android-starting-break?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
Google's slowly rolling out its attempt at mimicking the iMessage experience for Android, but with stunted success, mainly due to carriers dragging their heels. The company has tried bypassing them altogether in some places, but as we explained before, both the device and the carrier need to support RCS in order for it to work as intended.
If you don't live in Europe and still wanted to try RCS' richer texting experience, a new workaround using the Message beta for Android popped up last week that allowed you to do just that. Good things don't last forever, though, and it seems to be the case here. Reddit reports from various Android users show the new 'Chat features' section that shows up after enabling RCS is now unable to establish a connection or is informing them that their device is not supported.
That means the bevvy of features the new standard was supposed to bring with it — realtime delivery and read receipts, being able to see when other people are typing, and the ability to attach large video files and high-quality photos — are no longer available, and users are back to the vanilla SMS experience of yore.
It's not all bad news, though, and it doesn't seem like Google itself has turned off a switch somewhere. While some OnePlus, Pixel, Xiaomi, and Samsung phones are experiencing issues with the RCS workaround, others say they are continuing to use the service without any issues.
At the end of the day, though, what all this means is that Android users have to keep waiting on carriers, Google, and device makers to experience something that iPhone users have already had for years.

        Google 'Chat': Everything you need to know
      

        Better battery life Samsung Galaxy S11e leak hints at significantly improved battery life A new leak suggests the Galaxy S11e will be equipped with a much bigger battery than the Galaxy S10e.
      

        Old-school Android Do you still root and mod your Android phones? Rooting and modding Android phones used to be incredibly popular, but in recent years, the urge to do this seems to have died down. Do you still like to tinker with your devices?
      

        more privacy Latest WhatsApp update lets you control who can add you to a group WhatsApp has made a few changes to its Group Privacy Settings to give users more control over who can add them to a group chat.
      

        Buyer's guide These are the best rugged Android phones Living the rough and tumble life? Get yourself a smartphone that can handle everything you throw at it — or throw your phone at.
      
