
# Electronic Deals – November 7, 2019: V-MODA, Samsung & More

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:59:23+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-v-moda-samsung-nikon-amazon-sale-cheap)

Today only, you can save $100 on a great pair of headphones in Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day. That's the V-MODA M-100 U-SHADOW Crossfade headphones. These are really great headphones – though these are wired headphones – and offer some really incredible sound quality. They are also just $149 today.
Some Samsung TVs are currently at their lowest prices of the year on Amazon. These are not QLED TVs, but rather LED TVs, that are still at some incredible prices. And if you think that these prices will be lower on Black Friday, you're wrong. TVs are always discounted more before Black Friday than on Black Friday. It's usually the already cheap, and not that great, TVs that are discounted heavily on Black Friday – in doorbuster deals.
Amazon is discounting a number of Nikon cameras and lenses right now, in its "Happy HoliDeals" event. Allowing you to save big on some great cameras on lenses. Including the Nikon D750 which is up to 15-percent off right now. There are some really good lenses on sale, like the Nikon 50mm f/1.8 lens, that is just $176 today – that's the same price as a used one!
Advertisement
This is probably the last time the Fire TV Stick 4K is going to be on sale before Black Friday, and it's unlikely to get much cheaper come Black Friday. You can save $10 off of it right now, picking it up for just $40. That is a really great price for the 4K model, and one of the cheaper 4K streaming sticks that you can buy. This also comes with the new Alexa voice remote, which now has volume buttons! So you can control things with Alexa through your TV now.
These deals are all available until midnight PST on the expiration date specified below. These prices are also as up-to-date as possible, but beware that prices will fluctuate throughout the day. For the latest deals from Amazon, you can check out their Deals page here.
