
# Misfiring PSG Suffer Shock Ligue 1 Defeat

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:46:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/ligue-1/ligue-1-report-dijon-v-paris-saint-germain-01-november-2019/666583)


        Ligue 1
      
Result: Dijon FCO 2-1 Paris Saint Germain
Date: 01 November 2019
Venue: Stade Gaston Gerard
Paris Saint Germain endured a frustrating evening in Ligue 1 after falling to a 2-1 defeat to struggling Dijon FCO at the Stade Gaston Gerard on Friday evening.
Pascal Kimpembe’s return allowed Marquinhos to slot back alongside him in defence while Idrissa Gueye who sat out the 4-0 thrashing of Olympique Marseille returned.
The bright start after four minutes surprisingly came from Dijon, but Keylor Navas went down to the left to parry Julio Tavares effort from 25 yards out.
PSG hit the front though on 19 minutes when Angel Di Maria released Kylian Mbappe, who held composure to flick over an onrushing Alfred Gomis and into the net.
Romain Amalfitano filled up for Senou Coulibaly a minute before the half-hour mark, as Dijon restricted their defensive set-up.
In exactly four minutes, Fouad Chafik made way for Hamza Mendyl at wingback in the home side’s second change within the matter of minutes.
Dijon pulled level in the last minute of the half following a low ball into the area from Ibrahim Ndong, which Navas palmed into the path of Mounir Chouiar to fire home.
The bottom-placed side had a spring in their step following halftime, and went ahead two minutes in through Jhonder Cadiz who bypassed several challenges to slot through Navas.
Mauro Icardi played a telling one-two with Mbappe on the edge of the area nine minutes later, however the on-loan Inter Milan failed to beat Gomis despite a solid attempt.
PSG knocked on the door all the more on 64 minutes with Mbappe working his way into the area to get onto a cross, but the Frenchman headed off the crossbar in the end.
The woodwork prevented PSG for the second time five minutes later after Leonardo Paredes fired in a shot from the area after controlling a high ball from a corner kick.
PSG kept throwing all their gauntlet in the final minutes, but the home side stayed strong to collect their third win of the season.
