
# These $260 noise-cancelling headphones are just $70 today

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:30:03+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/these-260-noise-cancelling-headphones-are-just-70-today?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)

There’s no better way to drown out distractions than with a solid pair of headphones. However, standard headphones only offer passive noise cancellation; they won’t completely protect your ears in loud environments like a plane or a train. Instead, you’ll need headphones with active noise cancellation, and we recommend this $70 pair by TREBLAB.  
The TREBLAB Z2s are wireless Bluetooth headphones built for comfortable listening. They contain powerful 40mm neodymium drivers to produce high fidelity audio quality. On top of that, they feature T-Quiet ANC technology that filters unwanted background noise and allows you to listen to your music the way it was meant to be heard. Finally, Z2 boasts 35 hours of battery life off a single charge and an ergonomic design, so you can comfortably listen to your favorite tunes for days on end.
The outside world can be quite distracting, but you can shut it all out with these TREBLAB Z2 Wireless Noise-Cancelling Headphones, which are on sale now for $69.99, or 73% off.

        Prices subject to change
      

        Android & Chill RCS on Android is possible and it would be great if it weren't for carriers This is why we can't have good things.
      

        Saturday's best deals: Fire TV Stick bundles, Echo devices, & more Looking to spend some of your hard-earned money on this fine fall Saturday? Here are some great way to do it while saving a bit in the process.
      

        Double the fun For developers, Surface Neo and Duo represent a unique opportunity Surface Duo and Surface Neo are some of the most enticing devices Microsoft has ever announced. But how will developers take advantage of these new foldables?
      

        Disney+ in 4K Which 4K TV should you get to enjoy your new Disney+ subscription? Disney+ is here and we have found some of the best 4K TVs that you should consider if you want to get the best playback quality with your new Disney+ subscription.
      
