
# Kakao’s Klaytn Blockchain Platform Welcomes Eight New dApps 

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:21:36+00:00**

Author: **Ogwu Osaemezu Emmanuel**

Original: [BTC Manager](https://btcmanager.com/kakaos-klaytn-blockchain-platform-welcomes-eight-new-dapps/)


        Klaytn, the distributed ledger technology (DLT) platform from the stables of South Korean Internet heavyweight, Kakao, has announced the onboarding of eight more blockchain applications (bApps) to is network. With the addition of these new KLAY-powered services, there are now a total of 17 projects on the Klaytn blockchain network, according to a press release on November 1, 2019.
      
Following the successful addition of nine dApps to its network earlier in June 2019, the Klaytn blockchain network has announced the onboarding of another batch of new partners whose blockchain applications will run on the platform and utilize its native KLAY token.
As stated in its press release, the latest bApps added to the platform include Crypto Legends, a game that makes it possible for players to use their in-game digital cards as unique assets. 
Klaytn says it has inked a partnership deal with weneepl, the Korea-based startup in charge of Crypto Legends, adding that the firm is making plans to evolve Crypto Legends into an e-Sports game shortly.
FiveStars, a Role-Playing Game (RPG) and crypto-collectibles game developed by Skypeople is now live on Klaytn.  FiveStars allows players to create unique in-game items that can be converted into Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs).
Other projects that have joined the Klaytn network include PlayDapp, a blockchain game developer that has already created several games including CryptoDozer, Dozer Bird, and Dozer Treasures. 
The team also says the Battle Racers arcade game that allows lovers of fast cars to design, build, and race model cars is now on Klaytn. 
Commenting on the onboarding of its new partners, CEO of Ground X, the startup overseeing the development of Klaytn, his excitement over the development, adding that the platform will keep striving to integrate more user-friendly and highly functional blockchain applications for the benefit of millions of users. 
Since the launch of Klaytn in 2018, by  Ground X, the blockchain development arm of Kakao, the platform has been gaining significant traction, with leading Korean brands like LG Electronics taking steps to adopt Klaytn.
In related news, earlier in August, Kakao released its Klip crypto wallet teaser, allowing users to catch a glimpse of its features. 
