
# LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Ciaramella no happy accident

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **THE WASHINGTON TIMES**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/4/letters-to-the-editor-ciaramella-no-happy-accident/)


        ANALYSIS/OPINION:
      
Eric Ciaramella, the alleged “whistleblower” who fired up Rep. Adam Schiff in Mr. Schiff’s rabid attempt to overthrow the United States government via an internal coup seems to be just what Mr. Schiff needed at precisely the right time. In fact, Mr. Ciaramella seems almost too perfect. That’s because he was hand-picked to participate in the conspiracy against America.
Let us revisit what some of we know about Mr. Ciaramella. He is a Democrat; he knows Russia and Ukraine well; and he worked at the CIA and then was tasked to the National Security Agency (NSA). He worked for Susan Rice, Joe Biden and John Brennan. All of these folks are considered by many intelligent, rational people to be co-conspirators in the attempt to undo the 2016 elections. We also know that Mr. Ciaramella knew another person, Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, who offered his opinions to the House Intelligence Committee last week. Isn’t this just a chummy little group of pit vipers??
I could go on; it just gets worse. It is so very obvious now that Mr. Schiff was searching for the golden bullet that would “get” President Trump and cover his incredible lies at the same time. He thinks he has exactly that in Mr. Ciaramella, but the problem is, Mr. Ciaramella is nearly as biased toward Mr. Trump as Mr. Schiff — and that makes him poisoned fruit. Mr. Ciaramella is dirtier than a baby’s diaper and full of the same thing. At this point, the Democrats have painted themselves into such a tight corner there is nowhere else for them to go but up the impeachment path, which will end soon thanks to Attorney Gen. Barr.

        JEFFREY H. DISSELL
      

          Gainesville, Fla.
        

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
