
# Arsenal defender William Saliba still on Real Madrid transfer radar

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:14:32+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/arsenal-defender-william-saliba-still-20810845)

Real Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane has reportedly not given up hope of signing young defender William Saliba - despite him putting pen to paper with Arsenal .
The highly-rated French youngster was snapped up by the Gunners in a £27million deal in July before heading straight back to St Etienne on loan.
After injury problems early in the season, he has put in a string of impressive displays leading to speculation he might never play for Arsenal.
Spanish outlet Defensa Central claim Zinedine Zidane still wants to sign Saliba, and has asked Real Madrid club bosses to make a move to convince the Gunners to cash-in for a hefty profit.
Zidane is determined to strengthen his defence and eyeing a long-term signing to become the next Raphael Varane.
Saliba is one of three top targets, along with Benoit Badiashile and Boubacar Kamara as the Frenchman raids his homeland for talent.
Monaco ace Badiashille and Marseille's Kamara are both viewed as future stars, as well as Arsenal's Saliba.
Saint-Etienne manager Claude Puel recently questioned the decision of his club to sell Saliba before his summer arrival as he hailed his ability and potential.
Puel told L'Equipe: "It’s done, adopted and I’ve got nothing to say because it helped perform.
"Saint-Etienne have held their rank these past few years. Finishing fourth is a great result. Work was done in the short-term.
"Is this model viable? I don’t think it can make the club a success. Rather than buying a ready-made player, I’d rather we buy him to develop him and help him grow.
"It’s hard to accept that we sell our best player, a young kid, to help fill the coffers.
"When you have to sell your gems to round up the budget and then do short term deals to fill in the gaps, you’re being reactionary."
Saliba recently impressed Arsenal bosses when back at their training ground to recover from a groin injury as he is tipped for big things when he permanently arrives in north London next summer.
