
# Paedophile says he's a 'good one' for not acting on sick urges to abuse children

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:26:28+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/paedophile-says-hes-good-one-20806982)

A man who is attracted to children as young as seven claims he is a 'good paedophile' because he vows to never act on his urges.
The man from Melbourne in Australia, who is known as 'Kira' online, said he knew something was horrendously wrong when he went through puberty at achool.
He was attracted to boys ages seven or eight but as he got older he continued to lust after that age group.
Realising he was a paedophile he said he decided to never to act on his impulses as he did not want to hurt or harm children.
He told 60 Minutes Australia: "When I was about about 15, I was going through school, I was looking at boys, I was finding them sexually attractive."
 
"I'm not a monster, I've got a morality, I could never bring myself to do something like that. But then - you've got this dark secret inside you as well."
According to Dr James Cantor, a psychologist specialising in atypical sexuality, scientific evidence shows paedophiles are born attracted to children.
He told 60 Minutes the evidence suggests paedophilia begins prior to birth and despite every kind of treatment being tried for more than a century, nothing has been shown to work. 
Dr Cantor said some areas in the brain are wrongly connected to the other areas they shouldn't be networked to, and this can be seen using MRI imaging.
He said: "It (the brain) is accidentally identifying things in the environment that should evoke a parental instinct but instead it's provoking a sexual and erotic instinct.
"A person does not pick it. And despite every kind of treatment that has been attempted over a century, nothing has been shown to be able to change these people from paedophiles into non-paedophiles."
According to him said thousands of people are  'virtuous paedophiles' which means they are attracted to children but do not act on it.
Many choose to live a life of celibacy.
Dr Cantor, who is the director of the Toronto Sexuality Centre in Canada, said society needs to rethink the way it deals with paedophiles by making medical treatment and counselling more readily available to them.
The expert said it is important to understand the mind of a paedophile, adding that he does not defend their behaviour.
While reporting on the study,  60 Minutes  visited a caravan park that was set up to house registered sex offenders.
Dubbed Pervert Park, the site in St Petersburg, Florida, has been called a "village of the damned" where offenders who live there claim living together is their best chance to keep children safe.
One of the men, Bobby, 79,  who was convicted of possessing child abuse images, said: "I enjoyed it. I don't see anything wrong with it."
A number of studies have found that paedophiles are usually in their teens when they discover that their sexual preferences have not matured like everyone else’s, the  New York Times  reported in September.
Dr Fred Berlin, director of the Johns Hopkins Sex and Gender Clinic in the US city of Baltimore, told the newspaper: “People don’t choose what arouses them - they discover it.
"No-one grows up wanting to be a paedophile.”
In 2016, a study found that the brains of paedophiles who have never attacked a child are different from those who have.
The finding was based on MRI scans of 40 child abusers and 37 paedophiles never convicted of sexually assaulting a child.
The brain of 40 “healthy non-offending” people were used as controls during the study led by Dr Christian Kaergel from the University of Duisburg-Essen in Germany.
