
# SoulCycle Launches Retreats by SoulCycle

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Margaux Lushing**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/margauxlushing/2019/11/07/soulcycle-launches-retreats-by-soulcycle/)

Those who enjoy both luxe travel and premium indoor cycling should take note that Retreats by SoulCycle has launched this week. In partnership with luxury tour operator Black Tomato, SoulCycle fans (and their friends, because no doubt us fanatical SoulCycle devotees will tell everyone we know) can now find their center through Black Tomato-organized, SoulCycle-inspired experiences over the course of a handful of days. Retreat itineraries will be curated by SoulCycle’s top instructors and filled with activities that, like their signature classes, focus on community and fitness; with ancillary spa and wellness programming. When not sweating together, rider-travelers will be guided through local experiences reflective of the local culture and nourishing food. According to SoulCycle CEO Melanie Whelan, “SoulCycle classes are physical, musical, emotional and community-based - some of our riders say we create a sanctuary, therapy and release as the experience gives them space to connect to themselves. Our retreats have been designed similarly. Each retreat is multi-dimensional and offers participants the opportunity to find their center through one-of-a-kind experiences in amazing destinations - while also connecting with a like-minded community. The experiences are specially curated by our incredible, top instructors and include activities that focus on community building and bonding, movement, nourishing food, and, of course, SoulCycle.” 
The first retreat took place last week in Texas’ Hill Country and led by Master Instructor Melanie Griffith and Senior Instructor Bevin Prince. According to SoulCycle, this itinerary included mindfulness exercises led by Melanie, breathing workshops with acupuncturist and Reiki Master Erin Telford, healing workshops, morning movement sessions, SoulCycle classes, and stargazing. Hospitality partners for this retreat included The Kimpton Van Zandt and Lucky Arrow Retreat, and will include others in the future. 
According to the brand, “the first official Retreats by SoulCycle trip open to the public will take place in Winter, 2020 and will be available for purchase in the coming months (those interested can sign up for more intel here). The cost of the trips will vary based on the destination at hand and length of the trip. The first trip will accommodate 20-30 participants with quantities varying moving forward based on the destination at hand.” 
