
# Arsenal ‘could accelerate Jose Mourinho interest’ after Leicester clash

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:02:03+00:00**

Author: **Alex Harris**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-could-accelerate-jose-mourinho-20814022)

Arsenal could reportedly accelerate their interest in Jose Mourinho if they lose to Leicester on Saturday.
Unai Emery is under increasing pressure amid fan unrest after a disappointing start to the Premier League season.
The Spaniard - out of contract at the end of the season - is facing a make-or-break month to save his job after club bigwigs spelt out their expectation of a top-four finish to him.
But Arsenal could slip nine points behind if they lose to Leicester at the King Power Stadium.
According to Le10Sport , if their trip to the East Midlands ends in disaster, Arsenal could dial up an approach for Mourinho.
They were recently forced to deny their Head of Football Raul Sanllehi has met with the former Manchester United and Chelsea boss.
But Le10Sport claim Sanllehi is on friendly terms with Jorge Mendes - Mourinho’s agent.
And the French publication report that relationship would provide ideal conditions for negotiations to take place.
Mourinho would be a divisive appointment, however.
The Portuguese’s toxic relationship and previous jibes at the club would likely count against him.
He had a dig at Gooners after his Manchester United team lost 2-0 at the Emirates Stadium in 2017.
Mourinho said: ”I’m happy for them. It's the first time I leave and they're happy. I leave Highbury, they were crying.
“I leave the Emirates and they were crying, walking the streets with heads low. Today they leave with their scarves.”
Otherwise, Arsenal are limited in terms of potential options.
Gunners legend Patrick Vieira, Pep Guardiola’s No.2 Mikel Arteta and former Juventus boss Massimiliano Allegri are three names on the radar.
