
# No injunction for girl seeking place on LeBoldus football team

Published at: **2019-11-01T21:57:19+00:00**

Author: **Heather Polischuk**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/crime/no-injunction-for-girl-seeking-place-on-leboldus-football-team)

The court will not interfere in a human rights complaint involving a teenage girl who alleges she was discriminated against when she was not allowed a chance to try out for the LeBoldus Golden Suns football team.
In August 2019, Hannah Ounsworth, a 17-year-old Grade 12 student at Dr. Martin LeBoldus High School, filed a gender-related discrimination complaint with the Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission (SHRC).
An investigation was launched, but with some time to go before the investigation is completed, Hannah’s parents — Damon and Chantal Ounsworth — on her behalf filed a claim at Court of Queen’s Bench, seeking both a declaration she was discriminated against by the defendants and an injunction “restraining the defendants from contravening the Saskatchewan Human Rights Code.”
The named defendants are the high school, the Regina Catholic School Division and the Saskatchewan School Boards Association.
Lawyers argued the matter on Thursday before Justice Janet McMurtry, and she handed down a decision on Friday morning, tossing out the application in its entirety.
McMurtry noted while the plaintiffs’ initial assertion was that Hannah was denied a position on the Golden Suns football team, that position was clarified in argument to allege she was denied “a fair opportunity to try out for the football team.”
In terms of the declaration of discrimination, McMurtry relied on case law from 2014 which determined the court’s jurisdiction in human rights matters is limited by the Saskatchewan Human Rights Code. In her seven-page written decision, McMurtry stayed the plaintiffs’ claim for a declaration, finding doing otherwise would contravene the process set out in the code. The code dictates jurisdiction is only conferred on the court upon an application by the chief Commissioner of the SHRC. Such an application has not been made at this point.
McMurtry found the court does have the ability to deal with injunctions. But she found that while there is a serious issue to be tried, an injunction is not the proper remedy.
“The question of whether the plaintiff suffered discrimination is a serious issue,” she wrote. “The evidence raises some markers of discrimination and I agree there is a serious issue to be tried … Most of the harm the plaintiffs allege relates to the lost opportunity to practice with the team since the beginning of the football season, to accumulate extra-curricular points, and to qualify for scholarships and awards. An injunction at this time will not undo the alleged harm.”
McMurtry said an injunction isn’t designed to compensate for past harm, but rather to prevent future harm “and to provide a remedy to an applicant where monetary damages will be insufficient.”
The judge said Hannah learned on May 30 she wouldn’t make the 2019 roster. The injunction application wasn’t filed for another 4½ months, by which time the regular football season had ended. With only one game (set for Friday evening) and possibly another remaining, Hannah wouldn’t be able to play given that she wouldn’t have enough experience with the team — and an injunction would do nothing to change that situation.
McMurtry found any harm suffered by Hannah can be dealt with through damages, should the case be decided in her favour.
The judge added incorporating Hannah into team practices now would “disrupt the ‘team chemistry’ and practice schedules to a certain, but not significant, extent” — potentially causing harm to the team that couldn’t be dealt with through damages.

        hpolischuk@postmedia.com
      

        twitter.com/LPHeatherP
      
