
# Mystery Science Theater 3000 extends final tour hosted by Joel Hodgson

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Amanda Hatfield**

Original: [BrooklynVegan](http://www.brooklynvegan.com/mystery-science-theater-3000-extends-final-tour-hosted-by-joel-hodgson/)

Mystery Science Theater 3000 is in the midst of its “The Great Cheesy Music Circus” tour, which show creator Joel Hodgson has said will be his final outing with the show as live host. “I didn’t want to leave anything on the field,” Joel told The Washington Post. “This is my last time to really touch it, and really kind of travel with it, and really feel it all these times. I feel like I’m going to know so much that, by the end of it, we’ll really be in good shape to keep doing it.” He’s grooming the rest of the cast and crew to step up into his role in the future.
Before he departs from the live show, though, the tour has been extended, with new dates added in Monclair NJ, San Francisco, Salt Lake City, Oklahoma City, New Bedford MA, and more. The Montclair date happens on March 7 at Wellmont Theater, and tickets go on general sale Friday 11/8 at 10 AM. See the updated dates below.
As mentioned, this run of dates features two very cheesy films, with Jean-Claude Van Damme’s early film No Retreat, No Surrender and 1960 British horror film Circus of Horrors on select dates. While current show host Jonah Ray isn’t appearing onstage at shows, Joel says he’s “deeply involved creatively with this tour as a writer and riff producer.”
Meanwhile, classic MSTK3 soundtrack The Complete Clowns in the Sky has been re-released as a two-CD set, which is available now.
