
# FCC Officially Approves $26 Billion Sprint/T-Mobile Merger In Party Line Vote

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rachel Sandler**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rachelsandler/2019/11/05/fcc-approves-26-billion-sprintt-mobile-merger-in-party-line-vote/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_term=Gordie/)

Topline: The Federal Communications Commission officially approved a $26 billion merger between Sprint and T-Mobile on Tuesday in a vote divided along party lines, making a lawsuit led by state attorneys general the only obstacle standing in the way of the deal. 
Crucial quote: “To be sure, there are some who have claimed that this transaction would be harm competition, arguing that it would reduce the number of national wireless carriers from four to three. But the record makes clear that is a simplistic, backward-looking claim that doesn’t capture the reality of today or tomorrow,” FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai said in a statement.
Key background: Both T-Mobile and Sprint argue that the only way they can compete with AT&T and Verizon, especially when it comes to 5G, is to combine their resources. Sprint is in dire financial trouble, and the T-Mobile merger is a lifeline for the Softbank-owned property. 
“While Sprint is not on the brink of financial collapse, there are serious questions about how strong a competitor it can be in the years to come on a standalone basis,” Pai said in a statement. 
Chief critic: Consumer groups and Democrats on the FCC worry the deal will raise prices and hurt consumers by whittling down the competition to only three major carriers. And while the DOJ and FCC have tried to mitigate those concerns by earning concessions on 5G and propping up Dish as a competitor, antitrust advocates aren't satisfied.
The deal is “extremely likely to lead to higher prices for consumers, less aggressive competition, reduced levels of innovation in the wireless market, and lower service quality for customers,” said Phillip Berenbroick, policy director at Public Knowledge, a non-profit that advocates for an open internet, in a statement.
What’s next: The deal has cleared two major hurdles in getting Justice Department and FCC approval, but a group of states attorney general, led by New York, have launched their own lawsuit in an effort to halt the merger.
Further reading: Read the full order approving the merger here. 
