
# Weekend Warrior: Nov. 7 – 10

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:11:48+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Manila**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/manila/lifestyle/weekend-warrior-nov-7-10/)

True blue Manileños, recent transplants, and visitors to our city all know — there is never a lack of things to do in Manila. This is Coconuts Manila’s guide to all things good and great happening over the coming weekend. Peruse it, take note of everything that interests you, and hit us up on our Facebook page or on Twitter @CoconutsManila to sound off on what you think.
Date: Nov. 7, Thursday to Nov. 17, SundayVenue: Glorietta Mall, Ayala, Makati and various cinemas across Metro Manila
Eight original films are screening for 11 days in 11 cinemas across Metro Manila, if that isn’t enough to sate your inner film buff, then our handy primer should get you up to speed why you should bother checking out the wide variety of creative films in this line-up.
The Cinema One Originals (a division of ABS-CBN Films) Film Festival pairs up-and-coming film creatives with the network’s mainstays and veteran actors, churning out favorites like the 2014 rom-com That Thing Called Tadhana (“That Thing Called Fate”) by director Antoinette Jadaone, and the 2016 coming-of-age drama about a closeted teen lesbian Baka Bukas (“Maybe Tomorrow”) by director Samantha Lee.
This year’s round up includes a blood-peddling vampire’s assistant, a coming-of-age story about a teen hermaphrodite, a psycho-thriller about a possessed mom, and a widow who thinks a teenage pop star is her husband reincarnate. Tickets start at PHP150 (US$3) for students and PHP200 (US$4) for regular moviegoers, and are available at the cinema box office. For details and complete screening schedule, visit Cinema One Originals’ Facebook page.
Date: Nov. 6, Wednesday to Nov. 17, SundayVenue: The Theatre at Solaire, Solaire Resort & Casino, 1 Aseana Avenue, Parañaque City
Yes, Cats. One of the longest-running shows in both West End and Broadway history, premiering at the New London Theater in 1981 where it played a record of 21 years and staged around 9,000 performances — that musical — will be staged at Parañaque City’s Solaire Theater for two weeks.
The multiple-Tony-award-winning production, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats, features seven of its beloved feline characters (say the names with us): Rum Tum Tugger, Mr. Mistoffelees, Macavity, Jennyanydots, Old Deuteronomy, Grizabella, and Skimbleshanks, all of whom converge for a night at the Jellicle Ball.
If that all sounds gibberish, know that the role of Grizabella, once played by Lea Salonga in 2010, will be reprised by theater darling Joanna Ampil. Tickets start at PHP1,567 (US$30), and are available at the Ticketworld website. Now go play “Memory” on Spotify. You know you want to.
Date: Nov. 7, ThursdayVenue: Xylo at the Palace, 36 9th Ave, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig
Filipino-Canadian singer-rapper duo Soliven and Neeko, jointly known as Manila Grey, will be performing at the hip Taguig City club Xylo at the Palace. The duo describes their sound as a bridge between “modern Eastern aesthetics with atmospheric R&B and rap sonics.”
Translation: you can dance to it, and given Xylo at the Palace is a pretty roomy club, go do your thing. Despite moving to Canada, Manila Grey is keen to rep Filipino culture and include Filipino elements in their music videos, including rice cookers and Asian convenience stores.
Feel like tucking in to this club party? Door charge is at PHP1,500 (US$30).

        Photo: Dulaang UP / FB
      
Date: Nov. 8, Friday to Dec. 1, SundayVenue:Wilfrido Ma. Guerrero Theater, 2F Palma Hall, UP Diliman, Quezon City
The final play the late Dulaang UP Artistic Director Tony Mabesa helmed, Fuente Ovejuna, follows the people of the titular town, who revolt against the town’s tyrannical overlord by plotting to murder him.
Written by Spanish Playwright Lope De Vega in 1619, the play has been given a local spruce by adapter Nicolas Pichay. The show will run at University of the Philippines’ Wilfrido Ma. Guerrero Theater for two months, and features students and members of theater group Dulaang UP.
Tickets start at PHP500 (US$10) and are available on site or at the Ticket2Me website.
Date: Nov. 10, SundayVenue: Xylo at the Palace, 36 9th Ave, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig
Another reason to head over to Taguig City club Xylo at the Palace is to see Drag Queen royalty Manila Luzon in a one-night-only club gig this Sunday. “La Reyna Manila Luzon: The Homecoming Concert” promises to turn out a mix of campy singing, lip-synching, and comedy from the beloved Filipino-American drag queen.
General admission includes one drink ticket, and VIP tickets will get you merch, meet-and-greet access, and complimentary entrance to an after-party. Tickets start at PHP2,099.80 (US$42) available on site or at the Doorbrite website.
