
# Royal Navy and Marines in deal with allies at war with Russia

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:34:50+00:00**

Author: **Edd Moore**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/royal-navy-marines-deal-allies-3502041)

Britain has signalled its commitment to its Ukrainian allies by signing a deal that will see the UK's armed forces continue to train foreign personnel in conflict with Russia until 2023.
The Royal Navy and Royal Marines have been heavily involved in training the Ukrainian military, who have battling with Russian forces in the Crimea since 2014.
Defence Secretary Ben Wallace announced on Monday that the UK would be extending its training mission to Ukraine - dubbed Operation Orbital - by three years to March 2023.
In July the Royal Navy sent HMS Duncan to the Black Sea to provide training to Ukraine's forces. Royal Navy divers have also been sharing their skills with the Ukrainian Navy.
The British Government said on Monday the new deal was "a demonstration of our unwavering support to Ukraine".
UK personnel have now trained over 17,500 members of the Ukrainian armed forces since the start of Operation Orbital in 2015.
Defence secretary Ben Wallace, who recently visited the frontline in the east of the country, said: "My recent visit to the Donbas region made clear not only the costs inflicted by Russian-backed separatists, but also the resolve the Ukrainian Armed Forces have demonstrated in defending their territorial integrity.
“That is why we are extending our training mission to Ukraine for another three years – so we may train thousands more Ukrainian personnel and continue to make a difference.”
The Defence Secretary also underlined the UK’s support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity in meetings with his newly appointed counterpart Andriy Zagorodniuk.
Mr Wallace travelled to Mariupol in the south east of the country on the coast of the Sea of Azov, where he witnessed first-hand the effects of the five-year conflict in the Donbas region and received a briefing on the situation in the region from Joint Force Operation Commander Lieutenant General Volodymyr Kravchenko and on the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov from Admiral Ihor Voronchenko.
Mr Wallace also met with UK armed forces personnel who are delivering vital military training to the Ukrainian Armed forces as part of the UK’s training mission to the country, Operation Orbital.
Last year the UK enlarged the scope of Operation Orbital by deploying training teams from the Royal Navy and Royal Marines to deliver training to the Ukrainian Navy who face increasing threats in the Sea of Azov.
