
# This Prevalent Form Of Discrimination Is Making It Difficult For Job Seekers To Get A Job

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jack Kelly**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2019/11/01/this-prevalent-form-of-discrimination-during-the-hiring-process-is-making-it-difficult-for-job-seekers-to-get-a-job/)

The New York Times ran a piece detailing the travails of a woman who had lost her job and is currently facing the challenges of looking for a new one. She’s had little-to-no traction after replying to hundreds of job postings, networking and actively searching. Her job-search journal is filled with entries detailing her painstaking search for employment. There doesn’t seem to be a light at the end of the tunnel for her.  While the monthly jobs report, issued by the government, points to a robust economy and record-setting full employment, there is a dark underside that’s not discussed and purposely avoided. There are far too many qualified and intelligent people who have fallen through the cracks and haven’t participated in the so-called “hot” job market. These folks are college-educated, white-collar, highly experienced professionals. Unable to procure a role commensurate with their experience and skill sets, they’re forced into the gig economy, driving for Lyft or Uber, accepting project work or temporary assignments. Some will reluctantly take a job that pays much lower than they’ve previously earned just to make ends meet and pay the bills.
This group faces several inherent, systemic difficulties. Large corporations, when they have an open job, desire candidates that can fill the need by doing a very specific function. The job seeker is required to possess an exacting, specialized background, so that they can hit the ground running on day one. The problem for many people is that, in a fast-changing environment, job seekers with more than 10 years of work experience may not hold the exact skills and are summarily passed over. There is little appetite—on the part of managers—to take the time, effort and costs involved in training applicants. It's easier and more convenient for them to keep the job open until the perfect candidate comes along. 
 There is a cost-containment trend taking hold at most major corporations. In an effort to save money and cut costs, companies have been steadily relocating positions from big, expensive cities, such as New York, to lower-cost areas within the United States and to other countries. If a professional has more than 15-to-20 years of experience and is earning a certain amount of money, the company will pass on them. They’d rather find a younger person with three-to-seven years of experience, who can be paid far less than the more-experienced competitor for the job. 
The manager will weigh the merits of having the more-expensive person based in New York compared to simply moving the job to one of their hubs outside of the large and costly metropolitan area, where the pay is significantly less. As many companies enact the same strategy, there are fewer high-level, well-paying jobs available for senior people. The nexus between earning a handsome salary and being in your late 30s and older makes it easier to get passed over—in favor of the more junior, less-costly job seeker.  
There is much discussion about ageism, sexism, racism and other prejudices in the job market. However, there is a blatant discrimination that occurs, but nobody brings it up since it's deemed politically incorrect to discuss. 
When a person is out of work for an extended period of time, it's natural for them to feel somewhat depressed and experience a loss of self-confidence. As résumés are rejected, calls to recruiters go unanswered and there are no interviews set up, the out-of-work job seeker feels the devastating pain of rejection. An overwhelming sense of anger over the situation, fear of the possibility of never finding another decent-paying job and anxiety over how the bills will be paid take over. When the person finally interviews, it's incredibly hard to hide these feelings. Oftentimes, they come across defeated and unhappy. Given a choice of candidates, the person who appears as downcast, disillusioned, sad and hopeless will not get the job offer. A hiring manager wants to hire someone who they perceive has energy, drive and motivation. 
Unfortunately, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy for those who are mid-to-long-term unemployed. There is also the baseless concern by the interviewer that something may be wrong with the candidate. They’ll wonder why the person has been let go and how come they haven’t found employment after all this time. This thought process, coupled with a poor performance by the despondent job seeker in the interview process, leaves the applicant without a job and feeling wounded.
The author of the New York Times piece shared her article on LinkedIn. There are hundreds of  responses in which people share their own personal job-search experiences. The comments are heartbreaking and indicative of the dilemma facing the long-term unemployed. Here are a few examples that illustrate their frustrations:
These are real and difficult issues. Hopefully, after being brought to light, corporations will show some empathy to their plight and offer these smart, experienced, qualified and skilled professionals a fair chance to get back on track. 
