
# Enter now to win an extremely limited edition Terminator: Dark Fate Xbox One X!

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Ash**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/terminator-dark-fate-xbox-one-contest/)


        In celebration of Terminator: Dark Fate, Xbox is giving you the chance to win a one-of-a-kind custom Xbox One X console that’s inspired by the sleek design of the Rev-9 Terminator.
      
This console is the only one of its kind in the entire world! It features the Rev-9’s black skull emerging from the console with a matching metallic controller.
To make things even cooler, the Rev-9’s eye lights up with an ominous red glow when connected to power.
Along with the Terminator: Dark Fate console, the one lucky winner will also receive the following:
It should be noted that the Terminator: Dark Fate console is, sadly, a display-only console, which is why the winner also gets a normal Xbox One X console alongside it.
In order to enter, you need a Twitter and/or a Facebook account. You can enter twice, once on each social media platform, at any time between November 1st, 2019, and November 15th, 2019. Check out the instructions below for more information.
For Twitter entries:
For Facebook entries:
In order to enter, you have to be a legal resident of any Xbox Live supported region (you can find a list here) and be 18 years of age or older. If you’re not 18, you can enter as long as you have permission from a parent or legal guardian.
For more information and lots of fancy legal jargon, you can check out the official rules here. Good luck to everyone who enters!
