
# PHOTOS: Fire breaks out in busy market in Lagos, Nigeria

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:42:30+00:00**

Author: **Yahoo News Photo Staff**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/photos-nigeria-market-fire-184230326.html)

Nigerian firefighters were battling two fires that broke out almost simultaneously at a busy market in central Lagos, the country’s largest city and commercial center.
Balogun Market, where the fires erupted, is one of Nigeria’s largest textile markets.
“We have split our team in two to fight both fires,” Ganiyu Olayiwola, head of the Federal Fire Service in Lagos, said.
The two fires do not appear to be related, he said, adding that it was not immediately clear if there were any casualties. Thick black smoke and flames were shooting up from five-story buildings surrounding the market as firetrucks attempted to get access to the fire.
Residents were throwing what belongings they could from the buildings and some people on the rooftops were using small buckets of water to try to stop the fire. The fire started in the morning and became a major blaze by midday, with firefighters trying to keep the flames from spreading.
The Balogun market sprawls across many blocks on Lagos Island. It is well known as one of the best places in Lagos to buy colorful Nigerian fabrics, apparel and shoes. Fires and other disasters are frequent on Lagos Island where the Balogun market is located.
In March, at least 20 people, most of them schoolchildren, died with the collapse of a three-story building housing a school, residential apartments and shops. (AFP)

        
          See more news-related 
        
        
          
            photo galleries
          
        
        
           and follow us on 
        
        
          
            Yahoo News Photo Twitter
          
        
        
           and 
        
        
          
            Tumblr
          
        
        
          .
        
      
_____

        
          Download the Yahoo News app to customize your experience.
        
      

        See more galleries from Yahoo News Photo:
      
