
# 'Messi Didn't Shake Our Hands'

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:38:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/messi-didn-t-shake-our-hands/666895)

With Lionel Messi casting a frustrated figure after FC Barcelona's disappointing UEFA Champions League draw against Slavia Prague on Tuesday, the Argentina superstar has now been accused of acting in an unsportsmanlike manner towards his opponents.

        
          Read: 9 Players Who Left Barca Because Of Messi
        
      
The Blaugrana played out a goalless draw against the Czech giants in the Champions League this week, in a match that saw further pressure heaped on manager Ernesto Valverde.
The Spaniard was not the only one feeling the heat, however, with Messi and some of his teammates being accused of acting in an unsporting manner by Slavia goalkeeper Ondrej Kolar after the game.
The shot-stopper claimed that, although Barca 'keeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen did go to him after the final whistle to congratulate him, some of the Spanish giants' other stars left without even shaking hands with the Slavia players.

        
          Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma's Social Media App - Download Now 
        
      
"He (Ter Stegen) was waiting for me inside the tunnel," Kolar said, as quoted by iDNES.cz. 
"He stopped me and said he hadn't seen such a good goalkeeping performance for a long time and that it was a pleasure to watch me play well with my feet.
"He waited for me after the match, which I take as the ultimate award. To hear such praise from such a good goalkeeper, I had goosebumps. It was an amazing experience, but some of the other players...
"Messi and the others just left – some of them didn't even shake our hands. It was sad. We were all looking forward to meeting these big players, we wanted to swap jerseys after the match, but they didn't behave very well."

        
          Read: Incredible Messi Stat Makes Mockery Of All-Time Greats
        
      
Barcelona currently sit at the top of Group F in the Champions League with eight points, one point ahead of Borussia Dortmund and four ahead of Inter Milan. Slavia are bottom after claiming just two points from their opening four matches of the UCL campaign.
