
# What's in City Press Sport: PSL referees told to sink or swim; Why Boks’ third World Cup title is SA’s most significant; Unruly or unyielding? - Understanding Pitso Mosimane

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:37:31+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CityPress](https://city-press.news24.com/Sport/whats-in-city-press-sport-psl-referees-told-to-sink-or-swim-why-boks-third-world-cup-title-is-sas-most-significant-unruly-or-unyielding-understanding-pitso-mosimane-20191103)


        Unruly or unyielding? - Understanding Pitso Mosimane
      
His tendency to react quickly and his sharp tongue continue to land him in trouble with the PSL, but those close to the Mamelodi Sundowns coach tell Daniel Mothowagae that he is an activist by nature.

        PSL referees told to sink or swim
      
As much as it has not been easy for clubs at the receiving end of poor officiating, the same can be said for the national referees’ appointment committee.
This was revealed by the chairperson of the appointment committee, Ari Soldatos, who this week shared his selection headaches with Timothy Molobi.

        Why Boks’ third World Cup title is SA’s most significant
      
When he finally got to lift the Webb Ellis Cup on Saturday, Springbok captain Siya Kolisi mouthed all manner of thanks to the heavens as pandemonium broke out all around him. But as seismic as the 1995 victory was for the country’s then new democracy, and as reassuring of our status as a rugby powerhouse the 2007 win in France was, yesterday’s triumph in Japan was probably the most significant for South Africa, writes Simnikiwe Xabanisa.

        Chiefs clinch Mabhida thriller
      
One giant had to fall in Saturday’s Soweto derby in Durban, but Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates left it all on the Moses Mabhida Stadium pitch in their extended Telkom Knockout quarterfinal.

        It’s our way or there’s no indaba, Safa warns Sports Minister
      
If the resistance from Safa is anything to go by, the national football indaba proposed by Sports Minister Nathi Mthethwa is hanging in the balance.
South Africa’s football controlling body has made it clear that it is not ready to participate in a symposium that would “effectively be controlled by and owned by a third party”, by Daniel Mothowagae.
 

        SA Under-23s hobble to Egypt in their chase for Olympics ticket
      
In a scenario Safa technical director Neil Tovey aptly branded a “disgrace”, the national Under-23 team will begin their quest for next year’s Olympic Games qualification without a full quota of players in their opening match against Zambia on Saturday.
Coach David Notoane has confirmed that only 14 of the 21 players he had called up for the CAF Under-23 Afcon tournament would be part of the travelling party that departs for Cairo, Egypt on Monday.
