
# Trump Keeps WaPo, NYT Apps on Phone Despite Canceling White House Subscriptions - Reports

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:59:12+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911041077224219-trump-keeps-wapo-nyt-apps-on-phone-despite-canceling-white-house-subscriptions---reports/)


        Despite US President Donald Trump’s fierce criticism of the New York Times and the Washington Post, the outlets’ mobile apps still appear to be on the president’s iPhone, according to sources familiar with the matter.
      
Trump’s apparent loyalty to the New York Times and Washington Post apps is interesting, especially since the White House announced last month that it was canceling its subscriptions to the two news outlets.
“They're fake," Trump added. "You take a look at the New York Times, and you take a look at the kind of reporting they do, it was all - it turned out to be all wrong.”
Trump has long been a passionate critic of the outlets. 
In September, he called two Washington Post journalists “nasty lightweight reporters” after they published an article criticizing his administration. Trump added that the reporters “shouldn’t even be allowed on the grounds of the White House.”
This is not the first time a US commander-in-chief has cancelled a subscription to a news outlet after taking issue with its reporting. President John F. Kennedy canceled the White House’s subscription to the New York Herald Tribune for alleged bias during his presidency, Politico reported. Kennedy eventually relented, and the White House’s subscription to the outlet was renewed.
