
# Wallabies set for leftovers from All Blacks head coach race

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:37:01+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/wallabies-set-for-leftovers-from-all-blacks-head-coach-race)

A high-octane battle to be next All Blacks coach is under way and Australian rugby could be waiting to scoop up their pick of the leftovers, in a repeat of the Robbie Deans coup 12 years ago.
The trans-Tasman rivals are chasing successors to Michael Cheika and Steve Hansen after both fell short of their targets at the Rugby World Cup.
Replacements are expected to be announced by Christmas but while New Zealand Rugby’s main contenders are relatively clear cut, mystery surrounds the Australian process.

        Continue reading below…
      

        Click here to see the video
      
It was widely believed Rugby Australia’s director of rugby Scott Johnson had Dave Rennie in his sights to succeed Cheika and become the second Kiwi coach of the Wallabies after Deans.
However, Rennie is among a handful of prominent names invited by NZR to apply for the vacant All Blacks post and he said he was “humbled” by the approach.
Others certainly in the mix are incumbent All Blacks assistant coach Ian Foster and highly successful Crusaders coach Scott Robertson, while Japan’s head coach Jamie Joseph is likely to put his name in the hat.
It means at least three high-quality head coaches will be left without an international post.
One of them could then have their head turned by Johnson.
