
# Apple AirPods Pro review: Third time really is the charm

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:00:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Authority](https://www.androidauthority.com/apple-airpods-pro-review-1049878/)

$249Buy at AmazonPositives
Sweat-resistantActive noise-cancelingVastly improved fit over previous modelsPressure-sensitive stemCompact, high-capacity charging case

        Negatives
      
CostLightning cable charging

        Bottom Line
      
The Apple AirPods Pro is significantly better than the previous AirPods iterations and costs just $50 more than the AirPods (2019) with a wireless charging case. Sound quality has improved, thanks to complete redesign and nozzles that actually seal to the ear. Apple also made the AirPods Pro sweat-resistant, so you don’t have to worry about water damage. If you have an iPhone, these are the earbuds to get.
7.77.7Apple AirPods Pro by Apple
The Apple AirPods Pro is significantly better than the previous AirPods iterations and costs just $50 more than the AirPods (2019) with a wireless charging case. Sound quality has improved, thanks to complete redesign and nozzles that actually seal to the ear. Apple also made the AirPods Pro sweat-resistant, so you don’t have to worry about water damage. If you have an iPhone, these are the earbuds to get.
New AirPods rumors have run circles around us, but the new Apple AirPods Pro have finally made it to physical and virtual shelves alike. Apple heavily upgraded the AirPods Pro, turning them into true wireless earbuds we readily recommend. Not only do these properly seal to the ear now, but they also boast premium features like noise canceling and an IPX4 water-resistant build. The only thing likely to hold you back from getting a pair is the $250 price.
The Apple AirPods Pro received a drastic facelift. Now, nozzles let the earbuds seal the ear canal, which improves sound quality and noise-canceling performance. Apple clearly put a lot of thought into its ear tip design: these silicone tips perfectly fit the AirPods Pro. Rather than fitting around a nozzle that transitions into the housing, there’s a divot that the silicone collar clicks into, making it resistant to detachment.
Don’t fret if you’re unsure of how to find the best fit: the AirPods Pro can test this directly from your iPhone, which SoundGuys explains in its full Apple AirPods Pro review. Once you find the best set for you, the noise-canceling AirPods Pro automatically pair with your iPhone by way of an on-screen pop-up. Android users, we still have to dig through our Bluetooth menus, as our platform isn’t afforded the same streamlined experience as H1 chip-compatible iPhones.
Just like the original AirPods and AirPods (2019), the new Apple AirPods Pro sport a stemmed design, but this time with a functional twist. Squeezing an indentation on either stem lets you control music playback. There are other useful features that aren’t available from your run-of-the-mill true wireless earbuds, like transparency mode. This allows external noise in through the earbuds, so you can clearly hear your subway line’s stop or respond to a train ticketer. It’s also good for remaining aware of your surroundings when running outside. To toggle transparency mode, press and hold the stem for a few seconds.
Like other Apple-manufactured products, these wireless earbuds are decked out with sensors to make the user experience absolutely seamless. Dual optical and motion-detecting sensors facilitate auto-pause and play detection when removing an earbud (iOS only). Force sensors in the stems let listeners control their music and take calls by pressing, multi-pressing, or holding the stem.
SoundGuys recorded 5 hours, 6 minutes of constant playback with noise-canceling turned on while connected to an iOS device. This is above average for true wireless earbuds and better than Apple’s specified 4.5-hour battery life (ANC on). With the Lightning case fully charged, you can enjoy up to 24 hours of playtime before topping up. Just five minutes in the charging case provides one hour of listening with the AirPods Pro. This time around, Apple enabled Qi wireless charging by default rather than forcing listeners to cough up more money for something Samsung includes for much less.
While connecting to an iOS 13.2 device is a breeze, there are a few hoops Android users need to jump through before using the AirPods Pro. If you’ve used previous AirPods models, then you’re familiar with holding the button on the back of the charging case to enter Bluetooth pairing mode. After you’ve done that, dig into your smartphone’s Bluetooth settings and scan for new devices; wait until the AirPods Pro appear as an available device. Select the AirPods Pro, and the two devices will connect.
As an Android user, you’re not granted the same privileges as iPhone users. For one, auto-pause when removing one earbud doesn’t work and, of course, hands-free Siri access is unavailable. That said, the important features like noise-canceling and transparency mode work well by pressing and holding the stems.
Yes, the Apple AirPods Pro noise-canceling is effective largely due to the revamped fit. In the chart above, the higher up the line, the more a certain frequency is blocked out. This means the 100-500Hz frequency range isn’t as attenuated compared to high frequencies (4kHz and greater). Inward and outward-facing microphones facilitate noise-canceling via destructive interference. They aren’t the best noise-canceling earbuds available or even the best noise-canceling true wireless earbuds — for that, you need the Sony WF-1000XM3 — but the improvement is dramatic compared to the original AirPods and AirPods 2.
As many audio enthusiasts and reviewers will tell you, audio can be objectively measured, but subjective preferences matter just as well. In order to make the listening experience as uniform as possible, the AirPods Pro intelligently equalize music playback based on the shape of each listener’s ears. This combined with effective passive and active noise attenuation makes these sound markedly better than their forerunners.
While bass notes receive some emphasis, certainly more than the previous AirPods, it’s not as emphatic as what can be heard with the Beats Powerbeats Pro. Midrange frequencies (e.g. vocals) sound slightly quieter than bass frequencies. Treble notes, on the other hand, are the most exaggerated and sound twice as loud as the mids. This sound signature bodes well for pop and hip-hop, because you experience some low-end oomph and perceive even more detail from resonant, high-pitched sounds. It’s a generally consumer-friendly sound that pleases a large swath of listeners.
AirPods have taken over as a primary method for taking hands-free calls. Just like the previous AirPods, the AirPods Pro have a solid microphone array for transmitting the human voice. Voices are relayed with minimal deviation across the vocal spectrum, which means your low-pitched voice and your friend’s high-pitched voice should both sound accurate when relayed with the AirPods Pro. You will hear some variation in vocal reproduction though as the mics can’t replicate a completely neutral response, but it should be fine for personal and business calls nonetheless.
Apple remedies the most offensive design flaw of the first two AirPods models with the AirPods Pro: an unsealed ear canal. It may seem like audio enthusiasts are endlessly harping on the California-based company, but this design upgrade directly improves audio quality and fit. Getting a proper seal and rid of external noise is important because it prevents auditory masking, which is when loud noises (e.g. an air conditioner) make it difficult to hear quieter noises (e.g. the music coming from your AirPods).
Our brains only have so much bandwidth to perceive and analyze sound. This was essential for survival back in the Paleolithic Era when recognizing the sound of an incoming predator took precedence over your pal’s monosyllabic grunts. Today, however, we’re far less likely to be chased down by a lion, thus this auditory hierarchy isn’t as necessary. The AirPods Pro’s seal lessens the amount of information our brains need to process, making it easier to hear detail in our favorite tunes.
Now, if you’re considering other noise-canceling true wireless earbuds, that’s a different story. The Sony WF-1000XM3 outperforms the AirPods Pro’s noise-canceling capabilities. This comes at the expense of battery life which is a bit shorter: you get 4.76 hours of playback compared to Apple’s 5.11 hours of playback. Another great option, be it an on-ear one, is the Beats Solo Pro. Battery life is significantly better (21.88 hours) and you’re afforded similar up-to-date tech like the H1 chip and Bluetooth 5.0 firmware. Of course, the Beats Powerbeats Pro earbuds are a great pick but don’t provide any ANC.
If you’ve been thinking about getting a pair of AirPods or happen to be an iPhone user, the Apple AirPods Pro are the only AirPods we recommend with gusto. Not only do the wireless earpods sound notably better than their predecessors, but they support more features. Yes, they’re $50 more than the AirPods 2019 with a wireless charging case, but you get a lot for those extra $50. Chances are high that if you’re an iPhone user, you’ve already committed to staying within the Apple ecosystem, which makes sense: Apple makes it easy to join and hard to leave the Cupertino family. For those who plan to remain within the Apple family, these are the Bluetooth earbuds to invest in.
