
# Uncommon Enlistment: US Navy Asked Cruise Line for Advice on Carrier Repairs

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:03:33+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/military/201911051077224772-uncommon-enlistment-us-navy-asked-cruise-line-for-advice-on-carrier-repairs/)


        As every East Coast aircraft carrier remains docked and maintenance deadlines pass by, the US Navy recently confirmed they have been exhausting all options and even called upon Carnival Cruise Line for repair advice and tips.
      
It was revealed last week that all six aircraft carriers based on the US’ East Coast were docked in Virginia at Naval Station Norfolk, for everything ranging from refuelings and repairs to full-blown overhauls. One West Coast aircraft carrier is also drydocked.
In an effort to remedy the present situation and prevent a future pileup of carriers, the US Navy has branched out and tapped into new sources of naval knowledge.
Though the idea of Carnival Cruise Line, which carries the largest amount of vacationers annually, partnering up with the Navy sounds odd, Cmdr. Sarah Higgins, the spokesperson for Navy Secretary Richard Spencer, said the military official "believes the Department of the Navy must make every effort to retain and expand our competitive edge."
In fact, Carnival Cruise Line is not the only company tapped by the Navy.
Higgins noted Spencer has “met or spoken with companies from diverse sectors offering differing perspectives on sustainment, maintenance, supply-chain management, personnel management, and other topics.”
“Leaders in Congress who make disparaging comments against a platform [for which] we’re developing new technologies – you could not ask for a better disinformation program for our competitors,” he said on October 23 at the Brookings Institute, as reported by Breaking Defense. “And I truly mean that.”
The USS Carl Vinson, the aircraft carrier receiving repairs on the West Coast, made headlines last month after Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) agents determined a third-class petty officer shot himself earlier this year after showing off in a “joking fashion.”
Luckily the gunshot was not fatal and the officer received a reduction in rank and 30 days of “restriction.” The location of the gunshot wound on the sailor’s body remains unknown.
