
# Celtic fan says Rome bar attack is first time he's feared for life following Hoops

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:30:30+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Morrow, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/daniel-morrow/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/celtic-fan-says-rome-bar-20831799)

A lifelong Celtic fanatic is ‘fearing for his life’ for the first time in 40 after two supporters were stabbed outside an Irish pub in Rome.
John Campbell arrived in the Italian capital city on Tuesday evening ahead of the Glasgow club’s crunch Europa League tie against Lazio.
The 51-year-old, from Glasgow, has been following Celtic across Europe - visiting the likes of Barcelona and St Petersburg since he started supporting the club 40 years ago.
He, along with six of his friends and family, were enjoying a drink in Flann O’Brien’s in Rome on Wednesday evening, when two fans were stabbed outside.
 
“We were all here for a party and that’s what we got - we even had a good laugh with some of the Lazio lads", John told the Daily Record.
However, the atmosphere soured when word spread that two of the club’s fans had been stabbed near the Irish pub.
Images from the streets near the pub showed blood on the ground and the pavement.
Other footage showed the Baccanale bar in the Trastevere area of the city also coming under attack.
John said.“One of the guys rushed into the pub and told everyone that someone had been attacked outside
“Even though we were given warnings to be vigilant, everyone inside was hoping that the trip was going to go without incident.
“The mood inside the pub just dropped when the we started hearing things about a stabbing."
Prior to the Thursday night fixture, the Foreign Office warned fans not to wear club colours while visiting Rome after Celtic’s 2-1 win in Glasgow last month.
John said: “I’ve never seen any warnings like the ones the Foreign Office put out in all my years of supporting Celtic.
“We had booked the tickets to come over to Rome months ago, so we never knew that it was going to be as tense as this.
“I’ve been to countless games against Rangers at Ibrox and I can honestly say I’ve never been scared about an away game before - but I am fearing for my life with this one.”
Lazio fans caused outrage on the day of the match by making fascist open handed salutes while marching through Glasgow city centre.
Celtic’s own ultra fans, The Green Brigade, countered by making a massive banner depicting fascist leader Benito Mussolini hanging upside down - depicting how he was treated after his death in Milan in 1945.
Its message of “follow your leader” brought a UEFA charge for Celtic and led the club to believe the provocation might put fans in danger.
Celtic FC issued detailed guidance on fan safety after considering that the potential risks in Rome exceeded anything else the club has faced in recent years.
