
# Magic: Arena is running free events from now through November 20

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Carter**

Original: [Destructoid](https://www.destructoid.com/magic-arena-is-running-free-events-from-now-through-november-20-571513.phtml)

Magic: The Gathering Arena (Wizards of the Coast's new PC rendition of Magic that just recently launched) is set to debut three events, the first of which is happening right now.
"Chapter 1" as it's being called is the Artisan Market, and forces players to come up with decks that consist of 60 standard cards using only uncommon and common rarity. You can earn new card art for your efforts with up to five wins, with no losses counted toward your record. It costs 2500 Gold (free currency) or 500 Gems (premium currency that you can earn from some modes) to enter, and a few cards are banned (Cauldron Familiar, Cavalcade of Calamity, Gates Ablaze and Persistent Petitioners).
Chapter 2 is called "Oko's Madness," which is enough to get some people fired up. Following the ban of Field of the Dead, an obvious thing happened in the Magic: The Gathering meta; more people decided to just play Oko; another very powerful card that only costs three mana, and can be played on turn two with most decks, creating a very early oppressive force that's hard to come back from.
This event turns all creatures into 3/3 Elks (on top of their powers, a flip from the regular Oko), and you can pay one mana to discard a card and create a token that's a copy of a random creature with a converted mana cost of eight or less (very Hearthstone-esque). It costs 2500 Gold or 500 Gems to enter and has the same five win, no loss format with its own ban list (Baleful Force, Bedlam Reveler, Borborygmos Enraged, Crash of Rhinos, Gigantomancer, Griselbrand, Hoverguard Sweepers, Magmatic Force, Scaled Wurm, Tidespout Tyrant, Wolf Pack) in the sense that the emblem can’t create them. It'll run from November 10-13.
Chapter 3, "Cascading Finale," is a bit simpler. You get an emblem that allows you to exile cards from the top of your library until you hit a nonland card that costs less every time you cast your first spell, which you can play for free (the exiled cards go on the bottom of your library). Same deal: 2500 Gold or 500 Gems, and there are bans for Deafening Silence, Fae of Wishes, Field of the Dead, Flaxen Intruder, Lavinia Azorius Renegade, Lucky Clover, Rule of Law and Teferi Time Raveler). Chapter 3 runs from November 17-20 and will have five-win rewards with no counted losses.
You gotta love it when events are detailed ahead of time!
Festival of the Fae [Wizards of the Coast]
