
# Amazon Early Black Friday Deals 2019: 5 Alexa Birthday Steals To Buy Before They're Gone

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Madeline Kaufman**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/amazon-early-black-friday-2018-5-alexa-birthday-deals-to-buy-today/)

Amazon’s Alexa just turned five, and to celebrate the virtual assistant’s birthday, Amazon is rolling out deals on a wide range of devices that include the service. With so many devices on sale, consider the possibilities of adding a few smart devices for a better-connected home this holiday season. Here are the best deals on sale today for all of Amazon’s must-have Alexa-equipped products:
The Echo Dot has all the power of the standard-sized Echo in a smaller, less attention-grabbing package. If you’re looking to add a smart device to multiple rooms in your house, consider these smaller devices. Right now, the third-generation Echo Dot is $20 less, only costing you $30 in a range of colors. The Echo Dots in your home can all connect and communicate with each other. The Echo Dot can also learn voice control to turn off lights, lock doors and adjust your thermostat without you having to move from the couch.
The Echo Show 5 adds a visual element to the other Echo devices. On the Show 5, you can watch a video, re-read your to-do list or make a video call to a family member who can’t make your get-together this holiday season, all using the good-looking 5-inch display. The Echo Show 5 is on sale today for $60, a 33 percent discount. 
Why not set up your kids, nieces, nephews, grandchildren or any other kids in your life up with an Alexa in their playroom or bedroom? The Echo Dot Kids can read stories, help teach skills in downloadable apps and features a fairly-comprehensive parental control system to make sure the Dot is being used correctly. Because this Dot can connect to the rest of the system in your home, there will be no more yelling when it’s dinnertime. Instead, simply alert your kids via another device. If they listen, that’s a whole other story. This Dot is currently $50, for a $20 savings.
Like the idea of having Alexa in your home, but prefer some higher-powered speakers? The Echo Input is essentially a device that you can plug straight into your existing speakers, allowing you to get a much better sound quality than you otherwise would. The device is super cheap too — it’s currently available for $20, which is a $15 discount on the original price.
The Amazon Echo Show 5 is a great device, but perhaps you’d prefer a larger display — in which case the standard Amazon Echo Show is a great option. Currently on its second generation, the Echo Show has a 10.1-inch display that’s perfect for watching videos, plus it has bigger speakers for that deeper, richer audio. The Echo Show is currently available for $180, or $50 off.
 
