
# The Latest: Woman testifies against man in fiancee’s death

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/7/the-latest-woman-testifies-against-man-in-fiancees/)

CRIPPLE CREEK, Colo. (AP) - The Latest on the trial of a Colorado man charged with killing his fiancee (all times local):
6 p.m.
A woman who was having an affair with a Colorado man charged with beating his fiancee to death and burning her body says he called her on Thanksgiving Day and told her she had “a mess to clean up,” referring to the aftermath of the slaying.
Krystal Lee, who no longer goes by her former married name of Kenney, took the stand Wednesday in the trial of 33-year-old Patrick Frazee, who has denied killing 29-year-old Kelsey Berreth.
Berreth was last seen nearly a year ago with her baby near her home in Woodland Park, about two hours south of Denver.
Lee testified that before the 2018 call, Frazee had asked her three times to kill Berreth on his behalf, but she didn’t follow through. Prosecutors say Frazee personally told Lee he was responsible for Berreth’s death, and on Wednesday, she testified that Frazee told her Berreth’s last words were “Please stop.”
1:10 p.m.
A former nurse who says she tampered with evidence to cover up the killing of her boyfriend’s fiancee has taken the stand at his murder trial in Colorado.
Krystal Lee Kenney was testifying Wednesday at the trial of 33-year-old Patrick Frazee, who has denied killing 29-year-old Kelsey Berreth.
She was last seen nearly a year ago with the couple’s daughter near her home in Woodland Park, about two hours south of Denver.
Kenney, who was a nurse in Idaho, pleaded guilty to evidence tampering for moving Berreth’s cellphone.
Attorneys focused much of their opening statements last week on Kenney. Prosecutors told jurors Frazee asked her at least three times to kill Berreth. The defense questioned Kenney’s honesty, saying she lied to the FBI.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
