
# Russian Foreign Minister Calls Daesh Leader Baghdadi US 'Brainchild'

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:21:22+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/world/201911011077203529-russian-foreign-minister-calls-daesh-leader-baghdadi-us-brainchild/)


        On Sunday President Trump announced that Baghdadi had been killed during the US-raid in Idlib. The number one terrorist was reportedly under the Pentagon's surveillance for quite some time before the conditions were ripe to eliminate him.
      
The leader of the Daesh* terrorist group Abu Bakr Baghdadi was "the brainchild of the United States", and his elimination has not yet been confirmed, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Friday.
At the same time, he recalled that Baghdadi "is (or was, if he is already dead) a brainchild of the United States".
The Russian top diplomat went on, saying that the United States continues to support ''provocateurs called the White Helmets, who operate in Idlib in areas controlled by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (formerly known as Al-Nusra Front*)", therefore, provocations involving chemical weapons may occur at any time.
The United States uses the revenue from selling Syrian oil to prop up loyal armed groups in the country, Lavrov also said.
However, Sergei Lavrov also said that Russia and the United States have been able to resume consultations on the fight against terrorism and establish a de-conflicting channel on military actions in Syria.
Lavrov also said that Russia is not avoiding dialogue with the United States on new types of weapons, new military technologies, "including those that were announced by Russian President [Vladimir Putin] in 2018 in his address to the parliament", and is not hiding anything in that respect. "This is a very clear position that has been conveyed to the Americans", he said.

        *Daesh (also known as IS/ISIS/ISIL/Islamic State), Al-Nusra Front (also known as Jabhat al-Nusra, Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, or al-Qaeda in Syria) are terrorist groups outlawed in Russia
      
