
# Vindman Told Ukraine President Not to Get 'Entangled' in U.S. Politics

Published at: **2019-11-01T22:05:41+00:00**

Author: **Kristina Wong**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/11/01/report-lt-col-alex-vindman-advised-ukrainian-president-not-to-get-entangled-in-u-s-domestic-politics/)

The newspaper reported:
Giuliani, who defended Trump during the FBI’s probe into alleged Russia collusion by the Trump campaign, has been investigating the origins of those allegations, as well as Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden, who sat on the board of a Ukrainian company earning $50,000 a month while his father was vice president.
Vindman testified earlier this week to Congress as part of House Democrats’ impeachment probe.
According to his opening statement that was leaked to press, Vindman said he was concerned by Trump’s request to Ukraine that they help investigate the origins of the FBI’s investigation and Biden.
Vindman said he was afraid that it would lead to Ukraine losing bipartisan support in the U.S. and he said he reported the call to the NSC’s lead counsel:
He also said in his testimony:
The WSJ also reported that Vindman’s brother, who is also a lieutenant colonel in the Army and also works at the NSC but as an ethics lawyer, may be called to testify as part of the impeachment inquiry.
Vindman reportedly testified that his brother, Army Lt. Col. Yevgeny Vindman, had witnessed the decision to move Trump’s July 25 phone call transcript to a top secret server.
Vindman reportedly asked his brother to accompany him in his capacity as an NSC ethics lawyer when he reported the phone call to the NSC’s general counsel, John Eisenberg.
Eisenberg and his deputy, Michael Ellis, reportedly then began discussing what to do with the transcript, given its “sensitive nature,” and then suggested storing it on a top secret server.
Vindman, who listened to the call, reportedly testified that he made some “minor revisions” to the transcript but that they were not included in the final version.

        
          Follow Breitbart News’s @Kristina_Wong.
        
      
