
# SRO rewards program launched at Lee County School

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:43:16+00:00**

Author: **WFTX Digital Team**

Original: [Fox 4](https://www.fox4now.com/news/local-news/school-resource-officer-rewards-program-launched-in-lee-county)

LEHIGH ACRES, Fla – There’s a new program being tested out at one Lee County School, and the goal two-fold. It’s aimed at rewarding hard work and good behavior, and building a relationship between students and the SRO (School Resource Officer).
Created in partnership with United Way of Lee, Hendry, Glades, and Okeechobee, the Lee County Sheriff’s Office, and Lee County School District, students will have the chance to earn reward bucks. They then have the opportunity to redeem those bucks for prizes they’ll get to pick out while visiting with the the SRO.
“We’re looking for that moment the child might have with the SRO so they can talk, build some sort of relationship and look forward to continuing that behavior to continue coming to see the SRO,” said Sargeant Yadi Perez-Luna with LCSO’s Youth Services.
The pilot program launched Wednesday at G. Weaver Hipps Elementary School in Lehigh Acres. Fox four was there as SRO Michelle Henson handed out the first reward bucks to students who have demonstrated model behavior.
There is a way for the community to play a part in this new program. With plans to expand to other schools, there will be an ongoing need for donated prizes. United Way said you can donate by calling 239-433-7215. Donations can always be dropped off at the organization’s new Community Impact Center at Bell Tower.
