
# Ash Barty is on top of the tennis world after her WTA Tour Finals win, but what now?

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:14:55+00:00**

Author: **Simon Smale**

Original: [ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2019-11-04/what-now-for-wta-tour-finals-champion-ash-barty/11668482)

It has been a stunning 2019 season for Ash Barty.
Three singles titles — including a maiden grand slam at Roland Garros — has meant Ash Barty will end the year flying high as world number one.
Now, to cap it all off, she's won the season-ending WTA Finals in Shenzhen to claim the biggest monetary prize in the history of the sport at $6.4 million.
To put that money into some perspective, seven-time grand slam champion — and two-time winner of the Tour Finals to boot — Evonne Goolagong Cawley earned (just) $2.025 million in prize money during her entire career.
She's also earned more money than the leading men so far this season — although their own lucrative season-ending competition is still to come.
It is a million miles away from her brief sojourn into cricket in 2016, but now that she is at the summit, what now?
First up, her aim should be to stay there, but now she has a target on her back, that might be easier said than done…
Where men's tennis has been overwhelmingly dominated by the same three players for the last 15 years, the women's game has been far more volatile at the top.
Aside from the omnipresent figure of Serena Williams as something of a figurehead on the tour, there has been a veritable conveyor belt of players cycling through at the top of the women's game.
In the last 16 grand slams, 10 different players have claimed a title, a diversity of talent that is sorely lacking from the men's game.
In the same period of time, the men's game has given us just five different grand slam champions: Rafael Nadal, Roger Federer, Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray and Stan Wawrinka. Extend that out to the last 40 grand slams and you add just one name to that list (Marin Cilic).
The Djokovic-Nadal-Federer axis has contributed all but seven of those titles, by the way.
Meanwhile, the comparative diversity in the women's grand slam winners is reflected in who is the number one-ranked player.
Since Serena relinquished her record, 186-week stranglehold on the world number one spot on September 11, 2016, there has been 14 changes in world number one, shared between eight women.
In that same time period, the "big four" of men's tennis shared the crown between themselves.
In fact, there has not been a world number one in men's tennis other than Federer, Nadal, Djokovic or Murray since Andy Roddick in February 2004 — during which time there has been 17 different women's number ones, but I digress.
Aside from highlighting the extraordinary longevity of the giants of the game, the fact is that there is a lot more change at the top of the women's game, meaning there is a lot of competition for Ash Barty's crown.
With such incredible competition at the top of the women's game, there are a host of players waiting in the wings.
Having said that, there have been plenty of false dawns in tennis, with several highly-fancied prospects falling by the wayside in an attempt to reach the top, and stay there.
Since Serena Williams's 186-week stay at world number one, only three players have managed to hold onto the number one spot for more than 20 weeks: Angelique Kerber, Simona Halep and Naomi Osaka.
At 28 years old, Romanian two-time major winner Halep only won one tournament this year, Wimbledon, but that was her fifth grand slam final — more than anyone else in the top ten has managed, with the exception of Williams.
Take out Williams for a moment — whose 23 majors and 33 finals across an era-defining two-decade period of dominance is likely coming to an end — and there is no one player who seems able to rise above the rest and really dominate.
The active player with the next-highest number of major wins is Serena's sister Venus (currently ranked 53) with seven, followed by Maria Sharapova (currently at 134 in the world) with five.
Of the other experienced players in the top ten, you could argue that Kvitova's best days are behind her. The Czech star won titles in Stuttgart and Sydney this year and reached the final of the Australian Open, but that was the 29-year-old's first grand slam final since winning Wimbledon in 2014 and she only made two quarter-finals between those appearances.
After all Barty has achieved, both this season and earlier in her career, one thing is easy to forget: she is still just 23 years old.
That is younger than all but three of the other players in the top ten; 22-year-old Naomi Osaka, who Barty dethroned as world number one earlier this year, 19-year-old 2019 US Open champion Bianca Andreescu, and 22-year-old Swiss star Belinda Bencic.
Osaka and Andreescu both have grand slam titles to their names already in their fledgling careers, although both have also had to battle injuries, a curse that has felled plenty of hot prospects in the past.
A quick glace outside the top ten also reveals some rising stars who look poised to make the jump into the upper echelons of the sport.
Russia-born, 12th-ranked American Sofia Kenin, who at 20 years old has already claimed three WTA titles, leads a bevvy of American stars who are steadily gathering at the top of the game.
US Open finalist in 2017 Madison Keys is lurking on the periphery of the top ten in 13th, followed by 18-year-old Amanda Anisimova (ranked 21) and 2017 US Open winner Sloane Stephens (ranked 23) — and let's not forget 15-year-old Coco Gauff …
