
# Alfredo Morelos' viral Rangers death stare and why Steven Gerrard would take it to the bank

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Gary Ralston, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gary-ralston/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/alfredo-morelos-viral-rangers-death-20791938)

If looks could kill then monumental sculptors should currently be erecting a tribute to Steven Gerrard in the dugout at Dingwall.
The Rangers boss had to stifle his laughter as Alfredo Morelos walked off the pitch and threw his manager a piercing glance of absolute disgust.
Barely an hour had been played and the Colombian had just netted his second goal against Ross County to put his side 4-0 in front.
His second hat-trick of the season and the fourth of his Ibrox career was beckoning, but his love heart celebration had barely finished before his number flashed on the substitution board.
Replacement Jermain Defoe ran on to the field as Morelos gathered a warm coat and sat in the huff in the back row of the bench, like a kid called in by his mum from the local pitch on a summer’s night when there’s still half an hour of daylight in the sky.
Poor Hearts may be forced to bear the brunt of his frustration at Hampden tomorrow when the sides clash in the semi-final of the Betfred Cup.
Gerrard said: “To be honest, it was the most predictable reaction ever in football. I get that reaction off him every time I take him off and I love it.
“You don’t want to see your centre-forward smiling and sprinting to get off. So I loved Alfredo’s reaction, even if it was so predictable – I’d have put 10 pounds on it if I could.”
Perhaps the biggest error Gerrard made in his rookie season as Rangers boss was to start Morelos in last season’s quarter-final tie in the Betfred Cup against Ayr.
Rangers won 4-0, but a booking for the former Helsinki frontman when his side were two goals to the good triggered a suspension that kept him out of the semi-final with Aberdeen.
Kyle Lafferty was cup tied and so Gerrard was forced to turn to Umar Sadiq, a name that still sends shivers down the back of the Light Blues legions.
The rest is history – Aberdeen won 1-0, Gerrard was denied the chance to win his first silverware as Rangers boss and was reminded of the absolute necessity of depth in attack.
Now Morelos has been joined by former England striker Defoe, striking up a friendship following the departure of his closest pal Daniel Candeias that few could have seen coming.
It’s prospering on the park as well as off it – Defoe has netted 10 league goals this season, compared to eight for El Bufalo, who has also scored 10 in the Europa League.
In total, they have netted 31 goals between them and how Rangers could do with a couple at the national stadium, which has become something of a jinx ground in recent years.
The Gers have gone six games in a row without winning in Mount Florida, stretching back to the 2016 Scottish Cup Final, and haven’t even found the net on their last five visits, conceding 10 goals in the process.
Gerrard said: “We are in a much better place than last season and have two centre forwards who are looking incredibly sharp and a massive goal threat. They are happy and are enjoying their football.
“They are driven by the thought they can both become heroes at Rangers if they continue to fire the team to success.
“They get on ever so well on and off the pitch. They are both in a great place and the relationship is blossoming.
“Alfredo was really close to Candeias.
“But he has come out of his shell more and is mixing better with other people and Jermain has slid nicely into that position as a shoulder for Alfredo.
“It has been fascinating to watch it blossom. We’ve all had them, a bromance – your word, not mine!
“There’s an age difference as well as a culture difference but Jermain is gold dust for Alfredo and he should be tapping into him at every opportunity.
“Alfredo has probably watched Jermain for many years, respects the career he’s had and that he’s still very hungry.
“Alfredo also realises a club this size can’t be successful and function with one centre-forward. He’s coming around to the fact he can’t play every minute of every game and be at the top level.
“In terms of Jermain it’s the non-ego situation. He’s got no ego. He’s coming here to score goals and help the team.
“That’s his priority but he understands we’ve brought him in for a different role as well and that’s to mentor and to be there for the likes of Alfredo.
“That’s what Jermain is doing and he’s doing it ever so well.”
 
Rangers drew 1-1 with Hearts at Tynecastle only a fortnight ago and the Jambos surprised many with the tenacity of their performance on their last visit to the national stadium, when they lost the Scottish Cup Final narrowly to Celtic, 2-1.
Gerrard said: “There’s a hunger about our players, a big improvement from last year.
“But apart from qualifying for the group stage of the Europa League, we haven’t done anything yet from a domestic point of view.”
