
# Darren Till Considered Faking An Injury To Get Out Of Fighting At UFC 244

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/03/darren-till-considered-faking-an-injury-to-get-out-of-fighting-at-ufc-244/)

Lost in the bravado of most of the UFC 244 post-fight press conference was the openness of Darren Till. Till, who made his UFC middleweight debut on the pay-per-view portion of last night's fight card, defeated former interim middleweight title challenger Kelvin Gastelum by split decision.Till, wearing a bright orange UFC branded Reebok tee shirt, smiled as he plopped down into his seat, clearly relieved that he had ended his two-fight losing skid and got the first win of his middleweight run. We quickly learned that Till, who had a rough fight week, considered pulling out of the fight. 
"Just to get in there tonight, I tell you," Till said. "I was trying to fake an injury before walking out. I was thinking of an injury to fake because I just simply did not want to get in there.
"This is probably a thing fighters don't talk about. But you know me and I'm honest. That's just where I was at. Now, I'm here. Confidence is back. Like (expletive) all these middleweights. I'm coming for everything. It's back."
Some of that might have been the fact that he didn't have his standard time to prepare for this fight. Due to visa issues, Till did not get to New York until Thursday. Some of that might have been the fact that he was moving from 170 pounds to 185 pounds. Some of that might have been Till wondering if he would ever get another win.
"Before (Tyron) Woodley, there was no guy who could beat me," Till said. "And then two losses like that? It just took a lot away from me inside of me. I didn't say it, but I fought some hard demons. Then obviously getting arrested and there's other things. You lose sponsors and it's a (expletive) whirlwind. It's good and it's bad."
Till was 17-0-1 when he faced then-UFC welterweight champion Woodley at UFC 228. Woodley won that fight by submission. In his next outing, Till was knocked out by Jorge Masvidal. His win over Gastelum marked Till's first win since he scored a unanimous decision win over Stephen Thompson in May 2018.
Till said things calmed down for him on Saturday night when the horn sounded to end the first stanza. 
"Then the first round is over and I'm like, 'Come on, pull yourself together. Now we're going to win this fight the way we planned. We're not gonna let him touch you and you're going to win it,'" Till said. "I knew it was going to be hard to knock him out. I knew I had the power, but he's a tough cookie. That's just how it is."
Till was totally open and honest when he spoke to the media after the fight. The time he spent talking after his win felt too short, but Till said that openness is nothing new and fans and media should learn to expect that from him, no matter the outcome of his fights.
"Fighters might not say it, but I'll always say it. Whether it's good or bad, I've been criticized in the past or whatever. That's where I was at today as soon as I woke up."
UFC 244 took place at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The pay-per-view card streamed on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and early prelims on ESPN+ and UFC Fight Pass. 

        More From UFC 244:
      
