
# Vettel admits Hamilton is one of the best ever

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Newton**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49148/vettel-it-s-very-clear-hamilton-is-one-of-the-best-ever.html)


        Sebastian Vettel has once again praised his rival Lewis Hamilton as one of the best drivers of all time, with the Brit looking certain to secure his sixth world title this weekend at the United States Grand Prix. Hamilton only needs to finish eighth to secure the title, and that's assuming Valtteri Bottas takes victory. If the Finn finishes second or lower, Hamilton is champion no matter where he finishes.
      
If Hamilton does secure the title this weekend, he will move to outright second on the list of most titles, only one behind Michael Schumacher's seven.
The Brit's statistics are mind-boggling, with 87 pole positions and 83 wins in F1 and he is rightly described as one of the greatest F1 has ever seen, and Vettel agrees with this statement.
He told motorsport.com: "How can we think differently? For me it is very clear, he absolutely is [one of the best].

        "He has been in this sport for a long time, and he is one of the most successful drivers. After Michael, I believe it is right to have his name, although obviously the judgements are personal.
      

        "Formula 1 today has changed, there are many more races, and consequently you have the chance to win more than in the past, which is why I believe it is not correct to compare the achievements, to name names like [Alberto] Ascari or [Juan Manuel] Fangio.
      

        "Every driver must be judged in his time and Lewis is undoubtedly a great professional who stood out among all the drivers of his generation."
      
