
# Off-season preparation reason behind domestic success, reveals Baba Aparajith

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:43:39+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/off-season-preparation-reason-behind-domestic-success-reveals-baba-aparajith?utm_medium=rss)


        Tamil Nadu’s Baba Aparajith, who top-scored in Deodhar Trophy, has revealed that his off-season preparation helped him achieve success at the start of the new domestic season. Earlier, he had two forgettable seasons but he is out from those shadows and is looking forward to performing consistently.
      
Aparajith, playing for India B, was not only the top run-scorer in the recently concluded Deodhar Trophy, wherein he scored 167 runs in three innings, but also was one among the top run-getters in the Vijay Hazare Trophy with 598 in 12 matches. He credited his preparation in the off-season, that actually brought about the success, in which he focussed on both his fitness and skills.
“I prepared really well in the off season focussing on both fitness and skills. That aspect is helping me now. I have even worked on bowling during the off-season,” said Aparajith, as quoted by Sportstar.
The all-rounder from Chennai has scored 3660 runs at 39.35 in 70 FC cricket and 2887 runs at 43.74 in 77 List ‘A’ matches has also bagged 42 and 43 wickets, with his off-breaks, respectively across the two formats. 
Further on, Aparajith has credited his twin brother, Baba Indrajith, who also represented his state. “We exchange ideas. Not many people have that advantage.”
Speaking about his goals for the rest of the domestic season, Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and Ranji Trophy, he says he is going to take it one by one. “I am going match by match. I need to be in the present and concentrate on what I am doing,” he concluded.
