
# Teen dies 'while having sex with man in car after leaving party'

Published at: **2019-11-02T20:53:12+00:00**

Author: **Chris Kitching, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/chris-kitching/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/teen-dies-while-having-sex-20798706)

A young woman died while having sex with a man in a car after they both left a party at a nearby flat, it is claimed.
Police are investigating whether a drug overdose or "rough sex" was the possible cause of the 19-year-old's death, according to reports.
The woman's body was found in the vehicle, which was in a car park in the US city of Hackensack, New Jersey, just after 2am local time on Saturday.
Bergen County Prosecutor Mark Musella told local media the sudden death was considered "suspicious" and a post-mortem was taking place to determine the cause.
 
Emergency responders told the Daily Voice that the woman died while having sex with a man.
A post-mortem was being carried out to determine whether it was a possible drug overdose or the result of "rough sex", the news website reported, citing an unnamed law enforcement official.
"We'll see what it shows," the official added.
Investigators have questioned the man, aged in his 20s, who was with the woman in the car.
He told them that both he and the teen had taken prescription medication and were having sex when she lost consciousness, the Daily Voice reported.
The woman was pronounced dead at the scene, NJ.com reported.
She and the man had attended a party at a block of flats next to the car park, local media said.
The car was later towed from the scene as police conducted a forensic investigation.
