
# The Scott Brown conundrum Rangers must solve to bring Celtic's dominance to an end - Keith Jackson

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Keith Jackson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/keith-jackson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/scott-brown-conundrum-rangers-must-20803791)

So it’ll be green on blue in the Betfred Cup Final after all. Just as anyone with half a brain knew it would be even before Austin MacPhee managed the impossible by making Hearts worse than they already were.
But when these colours collide again back here at Hampden next month it’s reasonable to assume it’ll more than likely be all about Brown.
If Rangers are to halt Celtic’s unrelenting trophy sweep in ins tracks then manager Steven Gerrard will have to come up with a plan to nullify the influence of Celtic’s veteran skipper whose insatiable appetite for silverware continues to drive and inspire all of those around him.
When Scott Brown swallowed up around 80 yards of turf to thump home a fifth goal against HIbs on Saturday he was not just rolling back the years - he was sending out a message of chest thumping defiance across the city.
This was his warning to Rangers that he has not yet finished what he and Celtic started three years ago under Brendan Rodgers
Brown is not satisfied with the nine straight honours which have been stockpiled during that time. It is his intention now to collect No.10 and if Rangers are to prevent him from getting his hands back on this trophy then first they will have to find a way of curtailing his impact on the final itself as Brown shows no signs of slowing up.
 
It does promise to be a mouthwatering occasion right enough now that Rangers are finally to be taken seriously as contenders once more.
Having watched Brown bludgeon HIbs into submission on the Saturday, Gerrard and players rolled into the national stadium yesterday and humiliated a Hearts side which may as well not have bothered making the trip across the M8.
If the strategy they brought with them made sense to caretaker MacPhee then he was the only one who knew what his team was meant to be doing.
Certainly, his players looked every bit as bemused by it as the supporters who began venting their fury on the half time whistle
That most of then had left long before the end of the second half was really no surprise. Their team had barely even contested this match let alone threatened to actually try to win it.
 
Those who did hang around until the bitter end did so only to let MacPhee know that his presence will not be tolerated for very much longer. He may be part of the problem that Craig Levein created but yesterday suggested that he has nothing whatsoever to do with the solution.
MacPhee’s decision not to start with Uche Ikpeazu actually beggared belief especially given the manner in which this human battering ram had punched holes in the Rangers defence only a few weeks ago at Tynecastle.
In a wholly unconvincing interview before kick-off the stand in manager mumbled something vaguely ridiculous about Ikpeazu carrying more of a threat from the Hearts bench but even MacPhee didn’t look like he believed the guff that was coming out of his own mouth.
It was almost as if we were listening to Ian Cathro in a lady’s wig which really is the ultimate in damning indictments.
But no matter how woeful this Hearts performance was - and it really was abject from start to finish - Rangers still had to go about their own business in an efficient manner.
Although it took them longer than it ought to have done to find a breakthrough, the outcome was never in any remote doubt from the moment Filip Helander swept home the opening goal on the stroke of half time.
MacPhee had given up the midfield by sending Hearts out in a 4-3-3 formation which pretty much meant Glen Whelan was taking on Rangers all on his own with Christophe Berra behind him like a sitting duck in the middle of a hopelessly exposed defensive line.
Whelan’s hamstring packed in after half an hour of manfully attempting to stem the tide. Berra stuck it out until the death but increasingly this semi final became an ordeal for the veteran defender who could do noting to prevent Alfredo Morelos from running riot in the second half.
The irresistible Colombian scored twice and could have helped himself to two or three more so wide open had Hearts become and so complete was the nature of Rangers dominance.
And that’s why there is so much to be excited about ahead of the final because Celtic too have settled into their stride over these last few weeks with Brown at the heart of everything good about Neil Lennon’s side.
The 34-year-old stamped his authority all over the HIbs midfield on Saturday and - having already done exactly that at Ibrox earlier this season - he will fancy his own chances of dominating once again.
But with Steven Davis and Ryan Jack also operating in that area of the pitch - and with both of them excelling since the start of the season - it does promise to be an absolutely enthralling battle for supremacy in the very heart of this first showpiece of the season.
If ultimately Brown does come out on top again then there’s more than a decent chance that Celtic will have won a 31st successive domestic cup tie and a 10th straight major honour.
It really is a quite astonishing run and the captain’s role in all of this can not be overstated. It was this time last year that Brown began toying seriously with the notion of calling it a day during talks with Australian side Western United.
Few realise just how close he came to making that move before, after a late change of heart, he decided that his legs still have too much to give to Celtic at this critical point in the club’s history.
Brown’s performance at the weekend smacked of a personal vindication.
He simply cannot bear to break this habit of lifting trophies. We’ll have a better idea on December 8 if he really did make the right choice.
