
# 'I would quit': Takeaways from diplomat Taylor's testimony

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:10:30+00:00**

Author: **MARY CLARE JALONICK, Associated Press**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/i-would-quit-takeaways-from-diplomat-taylors-testimony/1005901765?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

WASHINGTON (AP) - William Taylor, the top U.S. diplomat in Ukraine, told lawmakers that President Donald Trump was withholding military aid for Ukraine unless the country's president agreed publicly to investigate Democrats, according to a transcript of his closed-door testimony released by impeachment investigators on Wednesday.
Taylor last month methodically recounted his conversations with other diplomats and expressed his concerns about the influence of the president's lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, on Ukraine policy. Referring to his own detailed notes - he has a notebook in his pocket at all times, he said - he told lawmakers about his efforts to restore the military aid.
House Democrats released a 324-page transcript of Taylor's interview as part of a rolling release of documents in the new, public phase of the impeachment inquiry. Taylor's transcript was the fifth released this week, and more are expected. Taylor is also scheduled to testify publicly next week.
Takeaways from the Taylor transcript:
AN 'IRREGULAR' DIPLOMATIC CHANNEL
Taylor told investigators he began to realize, after taking the top job in Ukraine in May, that were two diplomatic channels on Ukraine: one regular and an "irregular" one that was "guided by Mr. Giuliani." The military aid, and a meeting between Trump and Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, was blocked by the second channel, Taylor said.
The irregular channel included Ukrainian envoy Kurt Volker, European Union Ambassador Gordon Sondland, Energy Secretary Rick Perry and Giuliani. Taylor says the two channels eventually began to diverge in their goals as Trump pushed for investigations of political rival Joe Biden's family and Ukraine's role in the 2016 presidential election.
Trump's calls for those probes, and the delay in military assistance to Ukraine, are the center of the Democrats' investigation.
___
"A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING"
Taylor told the investigators he understood that the military aid - not just the White House meeting - was conditioned on Ukraine opening the investigations. Sondland had told him that "everything" was dependent on Zelenskiy making such an announcement.
"That was my clear understanding, security assistance money would not come until the President committed to pursue the investigation," Taylor told the lawmakers, even though Sondland insisted, after talking to Trump, that there was no "quid pro quo."
Taylor said he understood the reason for investigating Burisma, a gas company linked to Joe Biden's son, was "to cast Vice President Biden in a bad light" and that it could help Trump's reelection.
House Intelligence Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., asked Taylor in the questioning: "So if they don't do this, they are not going to get that was your understanding?"
"Yes, sir," Taylor said.
"Are you aware that quid pro quo literally means this for that?" Schiff asked.
"I am," Taylor said.
___
WARY OF THE JOB
Taylor recounts his own struggles with the decision to take the job in Ukraine after Trump had ordered the ouster of the previous ambassador, Marie Yovanovitch. He said he was worried about "snake pits" in Washington and Kyiv and raised his concerns with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo as he was offered the job.
Later in the summer, after a few months in Ukraine, he told Volker and Sondland that he would quit if Zelenskiy gave an interview promising the investigations Trump had sought and then the military aid was never released. In a text, he described that scenario as his "nightmare."
When asked to explain that text, Taylor told lawmakers: "The Russians want to know how much support the Ukrainians are going to get in general, but also what kind of support from the Americans. So the Russians are loving, would love, the humiliation of Zelenskiy at the hand of the Americans, and would give the Russians a freer hand, and I would quit."
___
WORRIES ABOUT MILITARY AID
Taylor said he decided, at the encouragement of then-national security adviser John Bolton, to write a cable to Pompeo outlining his concerns about the holdup in military aid. He did not get a reply, but he was told that Pompeo had brought the cable with him to at least one White House meeting at which the secretary argued in favor of releasing the aid to Ukraine.
"I know that Secretary Pompeo was working on this issue, that he wanted it resolved," Taylor said. "I was getting more and more concerned that it wasn't getting resolved. And so I wanted to add my concern and my arguments, from the perspective of Kyiv and the Ukrainians, about how important this assistance was."
Taylor told the lawmakers that he wrote the cable in the first person, which he thought would get Pompeo's attention. He also hinted in the cable that he might resign.
In the deposition, Taylor described the importance of the military aid that Ukraine was receiving from the U.S. to fight the insurgency backed by Russia in the east. "What we can say is that that radar and weapons and sniper rifles, communication, that saves lives. It makes the Ukrainians more effective. It might even shorten the war."
___
FOCUS ON UKRAINE ... OR GREENLAND?
Taylor testified that as he was pushing for the aid to Ukraine to be released, he was hearing from colleagues in Washington that it was difficult to arrange a meeting with Trump on the issue.
He said that may have had to do with travel schedules, but also the president's keen interest in buying Greenland from Denmark, which the National Security Council was looking into.
"I think this was also about the time of the Greenland question, about purchasing Greenland, which took up a lot of energy in the NSC," Taylor told the lawmakers.
Schiff responded: "Okay. That's disturbing for a whole different reason."
Trump sparked a diplomatic dispute with U.S. ally Denmark in August after he proposed that the U.S. buy Greenland and the Danish government rejected the idea.
___
GOP PUSHBACK
In a preview of the public hearing, Republicans criticized Taylor by arguing that he received none of the information firsthand. Taylor says in the interview that he hadn't spoken directly to Trump or Giuliani.
Rep. Lee Zeldin, R-N.Y., grilled Taylor on whether he had primary knowledge that Trump was demanding that Ukraine investigate the Bidens. Republicans also suggested in the interview that Ukrainians wanted to help Hillary Clinton's campaign against Trump in 2016.
___
Associated Press writers Colleen Long, Lisa Mascaro, Laurie Kellman, Matthew Lee, Matthew Daly, Ben Fox, Deb Riechmann, Andrew Taylor and Eric Tucker contributed to this report.
