
# Secrets of Pride of Britain Carol Vorderman's ageless beauty and that 25-inch waist

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:51:54+00:00**

Author: **Frances Kindon**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/secrets-carol-vordermans-ageless-beauty-20816216)

With her glowing complexion and enviable figure, Carol Vorderman is as stunning now as she was when she first found fame on Channel 4's Countdown in 1982.
Filling in for Lorraine Kelly on her ITV show today, fans were in awe of her smooth visage, with many asking what her secret is.
And the star - who will present the The Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards tonight on ITV at 8pm - previously revealed she's a big fan of treatments such as plasma showers, which used ionised gas to strip bacteria from the skin and encourage the growth of new cells.
She hasn't been under the knife but does have botox injections once a year in her neck and around her eyes.
She also has derma roller treatment, whereby micro-needles are rolled across the skin to stimulate collagen.
She also tackles her looks from the inside out, taking vitamins A and D, omega 3, fish oils, calcium, pro-biotics and cider vinegar.
"And I eat well. I cut down on sugar and cut down on carbs long before it became fashionable, and most of the week I drink very little alcohol. Your tolerance goes down after the menopause. Two glasses of wine and I feel it the next day. But I do love to party!" she told the Daily Mail.
Then there's that sensational figure.
To maintain her 25-inch waist, Carol - who hasn't weighed herself since 1999 - does a staggering 15,000 steps a day and hikes more than 50 miles a week.
She also hits the gym three days out of seven and does three open-air circuit training sessions.
"I’m probably about a size 8 to 9 at the moment. I’ve always had a small waist, I think I’m about 25 inches around my waist. If I put on a bit of weight, I know I have, and I go up to a size 11," she recently told Lorraine.
"A larger size 10, that’s kind of my boundary for where I’m happy."
As for her award-winning bottom - which won Rear of the Year in 2011 and 2014 and earned her Kim Kardashian comparisons - that, too, is hard-earned.
"I promise I haven’t had bottom implants. It’s the same old bottom. In my family, loads of us have it: the Vorderman a**e... And I’ve been working out for decades, so the shape of mine is down to years of keeping fit," she told the Daily Mail.
To achieve her look, she does 20,000 squats a year and is a huge fan of 'goblet squats' with a kettle bell.
Carol started using hormone replacement therapy three years ago and believes that has also changed the shape of her body, increasing her bust from a size 36 to a 38D.
"I think your bust does grow with hormonal changes. And we all know you put on weight when your bust grows. You have babies; it grows. Then you go through the menopause - I had my last period about a year ago - and it grows a bit more," she added.

        The Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards, in partnership with TSB, will be broadcast on ITV on November 5 at 8pm
      
