
# Donald Trump jokes Melania wouldn't cry if he was shot in speech on real shooting

Published at: **2019-11-02T12:53:35+00:00**

Author: **Milo Boyd, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/milo-boyd/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/donald-trump-says-melania-wouldnt-20794356?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

Donald Trump joked that his wife Melania would not cry if he was shot in a speech about an actual shooting.
During a fundraiser for Republicans running for the House of Representatives, the US President delivered a joke laden speech.
In a section about Rep. Steve Scalise - who was seriously injured in a shooting while at a congressional baseball practice - the former Apprentice star riffed on the topic of marital strife.
Trump said Jennifer Scalise, Steve's wife, "cried her eyes out when I met her at the hospital that fateful day," setting himself up for the punchline.
"I mean, not many wives would react that way to tragedy, I know mine wouldn’t," he said, Politico reported.
 
As well as drawing attention to the President's 'sense of humour', the remarks have again put the spotlight on his relationship with Melania.
On at least two occasions the First Lady has been captured on video refusing to hold hands with Trump.
Footage shows Melania dropping her husband's hands a mere moment after he clasps it as they arrived in Washington for his innaguration.
Another clip captures her flicking Trump's hand away while on a trip to Tel Aviv.
According to Michael Wolff in his book Fire and Fury, Melania cried when Trump was elected into the White House.
Although this account has been disputed, the former model has seemed curiously emotional disengaged with her husband when reports of his alleged affairs have surfaced.
When confronted with the allegations of infidelity, Melania said: “I have much more important things to worry about and to do.”
On Thursday night, it was revealed Trump and Melania Trump are changing their primary residency for tax purposes from New York to Florida. 
