
# General election: Carrie Symonds 'takes six weeks off work' to campaign to keep Boris Johnson in No10

Published at: **2019-11-03T15:02:17+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, Oliver Milne, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/oliver-milne/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/general-election-carrie-symonds-takes-20802226)

Boris Johnson’s girlfriend Carrie Symonds will hit the campaign trial in a bid to keep her boyfriend in No10.
PR expert Miss Symonds, 31, is set to target key seats the Conservatives must win to scoop a majority.
She has reportedly taken six weeks unpaid leave from her job at environmental group Oceana so she can battle for young female candidates in marginals.
Baroness Anne Jenkin, co-founder of the Women2Win group set up by Theresa May to help get more female Conservative MPs, said: “Carrie is an experienced campaigner and I know women candidates will be delighted to have her support in their constituencies over the next few weeks.”
 
Miss Symonds was the Tories’ communications chief until last year.
In 2017, she masterminded Brexiteer Zac Goldsmith’s shock victory in the Remain-supporting seat of Richmond Park, South-West London.
One of her first election stops is set to be in Bishop Auckland, Co Durham, where Tory Dehenna Davison is attempting to overturn a 502 majority to unseat Labour ’s Helen Goodman.
 
Ms Davison, 26, told The Mail on Sunday: “As a young, female Tory candidate, I’m not exactly the norm, and Carrie has been so supportive in helping me to promote my campaign.”
It is also expected that the so-called First Girlfriend will join the Prime Minister on the traditional bus tour of the country during the final crucial weeks of the campaign, according to the Mail on Sunday.
Miss Symonds bid to help get more Tory women elected came after several prominent female MPs said they wouln't restand for Parliament - citing the abuse they recieve.
Culture Secretary Nicky Morgan has said she is standing down as an MP -  because of the "clear impact" on her family and the abuse she has received.
In her resignation letter she said: "The abuse for doing the job of a modern MP can only be justified if, ultimately, parliament does what it is supposed to do - represent those we serve in all areas of policy, respect votes cast by the electorate and make decisions in the overall national interest."
