
# NZ vs ENG | Dropped chances and quick wickets cost us victory, laments Eoin Morgan

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:02:02+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/nz-vs-eng-dropped-chances-and-quick-wickets-cost-us-victory-laments-eoin-morgan?utm_medium=rss)


        England skipper Eoin Morgan has expressed his disappointment over his side's underwhelming performance in the second T20I, which saw them drop several catches en route to a 21-run defeat. But despite the crushing defeat, Morgan believes that it's important to learn from the mistakes and bounce back.
      
After a commanding six-wicket victory in the first T20I in Christchurch, the tables turned in Wellington as Eoin Morgan's English side slipped to a 21-run defeat at the hands of a spirited Kiwi side. Thanks to Martin Guptill's fiery cameo, England were pegged back right from the word go and chasing a steep target of 177, their batsmen failed to live up to the occasion, faltering 21 runs short of the target.
England uncharacteristically dropped a stunning four catches in the match, giving lives to both Guptill and Southee and skipper Morgan believes that the dropped chances and his team's failure to stitch partnerships are what cost them the match.
"We didn't bat, bowl or field anywhere close to what we did the other day. We kept dropping catches and kept losing wickets," Morgan said in the post-match presentation, reported Cricbuzz.
One area where the Kiwis clearly dominated the visitors was their efficient usage of the shorter boundary and Morgan credited Tim Southee and his men for the same. New Zealand hit no less than 12 sixes in the game, taking a liking to newbies Saqib Mahmood and Pat Brown, both of who went the distance. 
"I thought the Black Caps batted incredibly well, they used the dimensions really well. We bowled reasonably well.  They used the longer side of the ground really well," said Morgan. 
Despite the defeat, Morgan believes that it is important for his young side to learn from their mistakes and bounce back strong in the upcoming matches. The England skipper also insisted on the need to sport an aggressive mindset going forward.
"A lot of things can happen between games, we need to keep a nice aggressive mindset and maintaining it is important especially with a young side. It is important to make mistakes, but the important part then is to learn from it and come back strong."
