
# Oil firms to cut fuel prices for 3rd consecutive week

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:37:57+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/04/oil-firms-to-cut-fuel-prices-for-3rd-consecutive-week/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
OIL companies announced over the weekend they will implement cuts in the prices of gasoline, diesel and kerosene effective Tuesday morning.
In separate announcements oil firms said they will roll back the price of gasoline by P0.10 per liter; diesel, P0.25 per liter; and kerosene, P0.10 per liter.
Pilipinas Shell, Petron Corp., Phoenix Petroleum, Total Philippines and PetroGazz said they will implement their respective price adjustments at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, November 5.
“This is to reflect movements in the international market,” said Petron.
Other oil firms are expected to announce price rollbacks on Monday afternoon.
This is the third consecutive week of price rollback for gasoline, diesel and kerosene.
The Department of Energy (DOE) has kept close watch on fuel pricing since the September 14 drone attacks, which damaged key oil facilities in Saudi Arabia, as the Philippines imports nearly all of its crude oil requirements.
The agency earlier issued show-cause orders against 13 oil firms in view of the apparent difference in the oil price rollback calculations.
Local oil companies earlier reduced gasoline price by P1.45 per liter, diesel by P0.60 per liter and kerosene by P1 per liter.
However, the DOE said the price reduction for gasoline was short by P0.22 per liter, while the rollback for diesel was short by P0.06.
The DOE is still collating the reply of the oil firms.
Energy Secretary Alfonso G. Cusi said differences in oil prices were observed in Baguio City.
“We validated why pump prices are higher by P9.  We asked them to explain, to unbundle the price difference. But instead of replying, they implemented a price rollback of P3,” said Cusi. “That’s not an answer so we insisted on their reply. I have not yet received their reply, though.”
