
# Big Markets. Big Industries. Big Aisles. Ten Products and Services That Will Be Disrupted In The Next Five Years

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bernhard Schroeder**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernhardschroeder/2019/11/04/big-markets-big-industries-big-aisles-ten-products-and-services-that-will-be-disrupted-in-the-next-five-years/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

In your pursuit of maybe starting or growing your existing company, your inspiration for growth should come from studying existing markets (people segments like Boomers, Millenials, etc.) and large existing industries. Overlay your analysis of trends that will fuel change in existing or emerging markets and industries and you may have found the perfect storm.For example, the water category has grown consistently in the USA in the past 20 years despite the fact that we have pretty good drinking water. But consumers don’t want just drinking water, they want every kind of “portable” water that can be created. Sparkling water, infused water, enhanced water, etc. So it was no surprise that Vitamin Water was able to enter the water “aisle” and craft a billion company. People drinking less soda, more water. People being healthier is a growing trend.
Was it an accident that Greek yogurt appeared in the yogurt aisle in 2005 and today has created a sub category that is larger than the size of the entire yogurt aisle pre 2005? The founders of Chobani knew the benefits of Greek yogurt, noticed the health trend in the USA, loved the size of the yogurt industry and loved that people wanted to eat better, with more protein and less fat. Boom. Greek yogurt has basically doubled the yogurt aisle to a projected $10 billion market place by 2022.
If you carefully research the origin of SkullCandy, the earphone company, you will learn that the idea for starting an earphone company came from the founder’s actual observation of a long aisle of earphones at at big box retailer with no clear brand leader. A little research later showed the category of earphones was a multi-billion market. So, the founders built the brand looking for a little innovation, a lot of branding and some solid marketing and packaging. The story of Stance Socks is similar. Big aisle of black and white socks, no clear brand leader.
It’s not important in 2019 to actually be in the aisle. With the rise of eCommerce, subscription and emerging online business models, you just need to pick a big industry or category, research what the market is looking for that they don’t see in existing offerings, then leverage a trend whether it natural, organic, sustainable or a perceived technology advantage and disrupt that aisle. Listed below are 10 products and services that are either being disrupted today or will be in the next five years.
Soap: Yes, soap. If you counted just face and bath soap, it would total $19 billion in sales last year. What is in soap? Most people don’t know. But it definitely has too many chemicals. The biggest disruption will come from the production and sale of natural and organic soap. And you don’t need a big brand name to sell online via subscription.
Toothpaste: Most people have no idea what’s in toothpaste. But they know what they want. Protection, whitening and any other health benefits. This is another $10 billion category that will benefit from natural and organic products.
Shampoo: What’s in shampoo? Most people do not know. But there are some harsh ingredients. Again this $10 billion category will benefit from the natural and organic trend. Perhaps even with a vegan and sustainability advantage.
Deodorant: Does anyone know what’s actually in their deodorant? Is it harmful? Who knows. Another $5 billion category that benefits from a natural or organic set of formulas.
Hair Care: If you see how rapidly Dollar Shave Club is growing, it’s not from razors anymore. It’s grooming and care kits for men. Why? Because most men have no idea what’s in hair care products. This $20 billion category will also benefit from natural and organic benefits.
Cereal: With the average cost of one box of cereal approaching $5 in the USA, this is an aisle that is just wanting to be disrupted. We might not even care about natural or organic in this $9 billion aisle, just give the consumer a decent cereal for $3 or less and they will be ecstatic.  
Mattresses: Who would disrupt this aisle that most of us really never think about but every ten years? Casper. With an online business model and a quality product which is sold online bypassing the retailer, this newcomer has upended a $14 billion market.
Vegan Meats: This is a pretty interesting aisle. You would think if we wanted vegan food, it would not taste like meat. But this category will grow to over $5 billion in the next three years as consumer chase taste and health benefits.
Insurance: This industry will be largely upended by the Millennials and Gen Z who have absolutely no idea or loyalty to insurance brands. If Apple came out with insurance, they would probably buy it. This $500 billion aisle (which does not include healthcare) will see new entrants that cater to customization, crazy good service and reasonable costs will win over new customers who will buy their insurance online.
Finance: The major investment firms are collectively laying awake at night. In the next 20 years, trillions of dollars of wealth will pass to the children of their current clients. The major investment firms with legacy brands will potentially not be trusted by the “children” crowd who want a hipper, simpler more technology based online experience. 
Don’t waste your time and energy trying to come up with some amazing breakthrough product or service. Study the ten markets above and pick one that you will disrupt in a good way.
