
# Ask Fiona: My partner is really jealous

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/04/news/ask-fiona-i-feel-very-lonely-and-can-t-help-missing-my-son-1751459/)

When my boyfriend worked abroad for three months earlier this year, he was very keen that I stayed faithful to him.
Something (or someone) has made him suspicious though, and he won't stop questioning me.
The thing is, I did see someone a couple of times, but nothing happened, and it was over before it had even begun.
I didn't tell him because I knew he'd go mad, but he's going on and on about it and each time I lie to him, I feel guilty.
Should I tell him the truth?
However he reacts, it can't be any worse than the constant grilling and suspicion that I am getting now.

        WB
      

        FIONA SAYS:
      
Something has made him suspicious – perhaps one of his friends saw you out on a date and has told him. Leaving things as they are though isn't really an option because, left unchecked, the constant lies and suspicion will destroy your relationship anyway.
When he next questions you, tell him you did go out on a couple of dates with someone.
Stress that you didn't tell him before because it was so unimportant that you didn't want to worry him. Tell him that, later, his suspicion and persistence made it too difficult because his anger frightened you.
He may be angry at first, but once he knows what did happen, he might be more reasonable.
If he can't accept that a couple of dates mean nothing more than that you were a bit bored whilst he was away, then perhaps it's time for you both to consider whether the time has come to move on.
Personally, though, I would find it hard to be with someone who was this jealous and unreasonable - are you absolutely sure this is what you want in a relationship?

        HE HAS FEELINGS FOR SOMEONE ELSE
      
My husband has always found it hard to say no to people.
He's a kind man and can be manipulated by people quite easily.
The other week I caught him talking to someone on his phone and he became very nervous and quickly rang off, saying it was a wrong number.
I guessed, from his manner, that there was more to it though and pushed him to tell me.
It seems one of his work colleagues is having marriage problems and he's been supporting her.
Now he thinks he's fallen for her and although he swears nothing has happened between them, he doesn't know what to do.
He says he loves me but also has feelings for her.
This has left me hurt, angry and afraid and I don't know what to do.

        RP
      
FIONA SAYS: Your husband is sliding into an affair and, if this is what he wants to do, you must decide whether or not you want to fight for him.
If, however, this is happening because he simply cannot say no when someone asks for his help then, perhaps he has no idea of what he was getting himself into and could do with your help.
Counselling would certainly help him to understand how he has reached this situation in which he really only has two choices.
He can continue to see this woman, in which case there is every possibility that his marriage will fail.
Or he can step away from her, apologise to you and work at rescuing his marriage.
Encourage him to contact Relate (relate.org.uk) so he can work through this.
I would also encourage you to go for counselling as well because your marriage has taken a battering whatever the outcome, and it will help you both to move on.

        I CAN'T HELP MISSING MY SON
      
OVER the past three years I've lived through the deaths of two of my children and my husband.
My son and daughter were both in their 30s and my husband was only 64.
Not a day goes by without me missing them all and feeling sad.
I have one remaining son who is 29 and married with two children, but things are strained between us, largely because I so rarely get to see my grandchildren.
They spend a lot of time with their mother's parents but if I point this out to my son, I am accused of being jealous and unreasonable.
But I am not jealous – I am just hurt that I'm not being treated fairly.
This has caused several bitter arguments and I'm embarrassed to admit that we haven't spoken to each other for over three months.
I feel unhappy and rejected by my son and his family.
I'm 66 with no close friends that I can turn to, so I am also feeling very lonely.
Why is my son behaving like this?

        FW
      
FIONA SAYS: You've had a terrible few years and your son's seemingly hurtful behaviour isn't helping.
However, it is possible that he is trying to distance himself because he too is hurting.
You have lost a husband and two children, but he has lost a father and two siblings.
Grieving affects people in different ways, and, for some, it is easier to deal with the death of loved ones by avoiding certain people.
Those who act as direct reminders of the loss are probably the hardest to face, and you are probably the most direct of all.
It is also possible that your son is feeling guilty; not because he is in anyway responsible for the death of his siblings, but because he is alive and they're not.
That's a very hard thing to live with and he probably needs help to recover – just as much as you do.
Three months is a long time not to talk to your son and as he's a father, leading a busy life, he probably hasn't registered how long it's been.
You have focused a lot on your grandchildren and I'm sure they are really important to you, but perhaps your son needs to know how much you care about him, too.
He has suffered a lot, I'm sure, and perhaps, by focusing your attention on his children, he's felt they are more important to you than he is.
Do please make contact with him again but, rather than re-visit the grandchildren issue, why not explain that you miss him and that you want to put things right between you.
I would also suggest that you really need to open a dialogue between the two of you and rather than focusing on your feelings, ask how he is doing.
Hopefully, this will encourage him to open up and talk with you.
I suspect you'll then find you're both still hurting and, as such, I think you could both benefit from some support.
Cruse Bereavement Care (cruse.org.uk) are the people I would suggest you talk to.
Start by telephoning them for a chat but consider also joining one of their groups.
I am concerned by the fact that you say that you have no close friends and feel lonely.
A group such as Cruse would be one way to start changing that, but I would also strongly advise that you consider other ways of changing your life too.
You are still young, so get involved locally – join a gym, a reading group, an amateur theatre company, an art group; whatever appeals to you and gets you out and about.
Once you've re-established a dialogue with your son, I am sure the grandchildren issue will resolve itself too.
If it doesn't, though, you will have more in your life and it may not hurt so much if you don't see them as often as you would like.

        I'D RATHER NOT MEET MY DAUGHTER'S NEW BOYFRIEND
      
My daughter has had some awful men in her life, and we've struggled to help her to see this.
Some have just messed her about, others have been slept around behind her back and one used to beat her up regularly.
She now has another man who she's been seeing for a couple of months and wants us to meet him.
She has invited us to join them for a meal out, but I'm unsure.
All the previous boyfriends were so awful, I wouldn't like to be stuck for an evening with one of them, and I'm not sure what she is expecting us to do this time.

        CF
      
FIONA SAYS: I'm sure your daughter knows she's made some bad choices in the past.
If she's asking you to meet this new boyfriend, it's probably because she wants to know what you think of him.
A neutral venue is probably a good idea – he may be nervous about meeting you for the first time.
Whatever you think of him though, be cautious about voicing too strong an opinion after only one meeting, especially if you're not too keen.
If you speak out strongly against him, you might just push her into defending him.
Equally, being too positive might turn her off him.
Reserve judgement until your daughter really wants an honest opinion and, even then, be careful because if the relationship develops, she could hold it against you, whatever you say.

        :: If you have a problem you need help with, email Fiona by writing to help@askfiona.net for advice. All letters are treated in complete confidence and, to protect this privacy, Fiona is unable to pass on your messages to other readers. Fiona regrets that she cannot enter into personal correspondence.
      
