
# Debate on Balloch site at centre of Flamingo Land's plans to be held by MSPs

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:47:18+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine Weir**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/debate-balloch-site-centre-flamingo-20810171)

A debate on the future of land in Balloch which was due to be developed by Flamingo Land will be held in parliament tonight (Tuesday).
MSPs will discuss the West Riverside site with the summit set to conclude with a response from a Scottish Government minister.
From 5pm at Holyrood, members of the Scottish Parliament will get the chance to discuss the issues related to Flamingo Land’s plans including the expressions of interest in a community buyout.
They will also speak about the Save Loch Lomond campaign who met at the end of last month to discuss other possible uses for the land.
Members of the public made suggestions including camping and glamping, a visitor centre and a facility for children, as reported in last week’s Lennox Herald.
However Flamingo Land have yet to confirm whether they will submit an updated plan for the plot after withdrawing their application once it had been recommended for refusal by Loch Lomond and the National Park planners.
Andy Miller from the company told us last week that there are no fixed plans at present, adding: “Talks are still ongoing.”
 
He again stressed that the firm had to take into account the cost implications of putting forward another application after withdrawing their proposals to build the holiday park at West Riverside and Woodbank House including a 60-bedroom apart-hotel, 32-bedroom budget accommodation, 131 self-catering units, six private houses and 15 apartments.
Green MSP Ross Greer will lead this week’s debate although it has gained the support of 10 MSPs including Jackie Baillie, Maurice Corry and Dumbarton-born Patrick Harvie.
Ross said: “I’m delighted to have secured parliamentary time to discuss the future of Balloch and Loch Lomond.
 
“It was clear at our community meeting that local residents are bursting with alternative ideas for the site which would preserve its natural beauty, protect wildlife and support the local economy.
“There’s a real appetite for making Loch Lomond a centre for ecotourism and Balloch can play a key role in that.”
He added: “This debate will be an opportunity to thank the Save Loch Lomond campaign and local residents for their work holding off Flamingo Land and to highlight the exclusive agreement the company still has on purchasing rights for the West Riverside and Drumkinnon Woods.
“I look forward to asking the Scottish Government to respond to our concerns about that agreement in particular and to recognise the community’s desire that any development should benefit the local area, not a company based hundreds of miles away.”
