
# Power season 6 episode 11 release date: When are new Power episodes on Netflix?

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:16:57+00:00**

Author: **Lewis Knight, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/lewis-knight/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/power-season-6-episode-11-20807852)


        Spoiler warning for Power season 6 episode 10
      
The latest season of Ghost's antics has not let up.
Power season 6 has seen some intense drama go down, but the midseason finale - entitled No one Can Stop Me - saw one of the enemies of James St. Patrick aka Ghost ( Omari Hardwick ) gun down the gangster and cause him to fall from a balcony in his nightclub after being shot.
But who was responsible for pulling the trigger?
Additionally, will Ghost survive his wounds and fall?
Most importantly, however, when can we expect the next episode of Power season 6 on Netflix ?
Power season 6 is airing in two parts, with episode 10 proving to be the midseason finale before the show takes a break until 2020.
It is widely expected - but not confirmed - that Power season 6 episode 11 will air on Starz in the US on January 5, 2020.
If this is true, then UK fans can expect the episode to be available on Netflix on January 6, 2020.
However, keep in mind, this date has yet to be confirmed.
Regardless, we have quite a wait on our hands for new episodes, so perhaps you should just watch the first part of season 6 all over again!
It also gives us time to look for more clues to as to who shot Ghost.

        Power season 6 is shown on Netflix in the UK.
      

        
          Are you a fan of Power? Let us know in the comments below.
        
      
