
# Jupiter Will Be Left ‘Moonless’ This Weekend As Its Four Largest Satellites Vanish From View

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Carter**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jamiecartereurope/2019/11/06/jupiter-will-be-left-moonless-this-weekend-as-galilean-moons-vanish-from-view/)

Have you ever seen, with your naked eyes, the four giant moons of Jupiter? If you haven’t it’s high time you did—they are a truly magnificent sight in binoculars or a small telescope—but Saturday might not be the best time to try for your first glimpse. For sky-watchers in central-eastern Asia, all four of Jupiter’s giant moons—Europa, Io, Ganymede and Callisto—will disappear from view for an hour or so. 
The rare is caused by a total lunar eclipse, a couple of transits, and an occultation. 
During a short time beginning at 12:04 UTC on Saturday, November 9 for about six hours, the moon Callisto will be eclipsed by Jupiter’s giant shadow as a total lunar eclipse turns its surface red. Soon after, Europa will drift behind Jupiter and also experience a total lunar eclipse before Io and Ganymede move slowly across the giant planet’s disk. About an hour after the event begins, Io’s shadow will be cast onto the surface of Jupiter until 15:18 UTC, four minutes after Ganymede’s shadow begins to transit. If you’re in India or Central Asia and you have a telescope, it promises to be quite a sight (sadly it happens below the horizon for skywatchers in the US, and in the daytime sky for Europeans and Africans). 
Here’s exactly what will happen, and when, on Saturday, November 9, 2019 according to Sky & Telescope magazine. 
The Hubble Space Telescope photographed (above) a rare triple-moon conjunction of Europa, Callisto, and Io back in 2015 (Ganymede was outside Hubble's field of view and too far from Jupiter to be part of this conjunction). It’s common to see the four Galilean moons transiting the face of Jupiter and casting shadows onto its cloud tops. However, seeing three moons transiting the face of Jupiter at the same time is very rare, occurring only once or twice each decade. 

        What are the Galilean moons? 
      
Named after the 17th century scientist Galileo Galilei, who discovered them with a telescope, the four giant moons—Europa, Io, Ganymede and Callisto—complete orbits around Jupiter with durations ranging from 2 days to 17 days. And they are truly giant; although Jupiter has 79 known moons, the four Galilean moons amount for a whopping 99.9 percent of the mass in Jupiter's satellite system. Jupiter just has no middle-sized moons, only giant moons and tiny moons. Ganymede, the biggest of the lot, is actually larger than the planet Mercury.
Due for launch in 2022 and arrive at Jupiter in 2030, the European Space Agency's Jupiter Icy Moon Explorer (JUICE) mission will get close-up views of Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. Meanwhile, NASA’s Europa Clipper mission, due to launch in 2023-2025, will conduct an in-depth exploration of the icy moon and see if it could harbor conditions suitable for life. 

        Wishing you clear skies and wide eyes. 
      
