
# More UK flights to Sharm el Sheikh announced and they start from December

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:15:44+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/asia-middle-east/more-uk-flights-sharm-el-20824613)

Red Sea Holidays has announced more flights from the UK to Sharm el Sheikh for December 2019.
The news comes after travel restrictions have been lifted from the UK to the Egyptian destination for the first time in four years.
The travel firm will be operating direct flights from Birmingham to the former holiday hotspot which are set to take off from the 19th December 2019.
This will include holiday packages, with seven-night all-inclusive deals available from £800pp in December, and prices from £549pp in January.
Families thinking ahead to February half term can find prices from £2000 based on a family of four travelling, also on an all-inclusive basis.
Holidaymakers can already book their trip on the Red Sea Holidays website or call 0207 332 2660.
The Birmingham route comes after the company announced it would be operating direct flights from London Gatwick to Sharm el Sheikh, which are due to commence from the 22nd December 2019.
Red Sea Holidays isn't the only firm to be bringing back Sharm el Sheikh holidays now that the travel restrictions have been lifted.
TUI recently announced it was resuming flights and holidays to Sharm el Sheikh, which are due to go on sale from Thursday 7th November.
The first flights and packages will be available from February 2020, with departures from London Gatwick, Manchester and Birmingham.
The company also expects to launch packages from Doncaster Sheffield and Bristol airports in May 2020.
Meanwhile, a number of other UK firms including easyJet have also said they are considering their options now that the destination is re-opening to British tourists.
The travel restrictions were first put in place by the FCO in 2015 following the bombing of a Russian airliner which left 224 people dead.
The FCO updated its Egypt travel advice earlier this year revealing that the ban on flights was being lifted. However, the authority still warns Brits as part of its advice that 'terrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in Egypt'.
