
# New I'm A Celebrity teaser sees Ant and Dec hit stormy seas ahead of launch

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:30:46+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/new-im-celebrity-teaser-sees-20790064)

ITV have released another funny teaser for I'm A Celebrity 2019, featuring hosts Ant McPartlin and Dec Donnelly, ahead of the jungle show starting.
An initial teaser earlier this month saw Ant and Dec lost and requiring help from fans to send them on their way to the Australian jungle.
It did not appear they're getting anywhere though, with viewers choosing for them to face Arctic Antics as the next part of the journey.
The next destination for the pair, which was also voted by TV watchers, shows them tackling stormy seas in a small wooden boat.
The new promo will premiere for the first time on ITV on Friday night.
 
In the short footage, Ant and Dec are clad in yellow raincoats as waves lap around them as they battle the elements in the tiny dinghy.
Dec shouts over the wind: "I should warn you I am a terrible swimmer!"
Ant replies: “A terrible singer? I know I have heard ya!"
 
 
As Dec wraps his arms in inflatable armbands and begins to blow them up, Ant jibes: “At least things can’t get any worse.”
Speaking too soon, a bolt of lightening hits the boat and punctures a hole in the side.
As water spurts into the vessel, Dec exclaims: “Ah! We are sinking!”
Before instructing: “All hands on Dec!”
 
The duo cling onto one another as Ant shouts: “Its not working!”
Dec then screams: “What are we going to do" before the I'm A Celebrity theme tune plays.
But where will the boys end up next? Viewers can decide by selecting either 'Nature Calls' or 'Safety First' on the I'm A Celeb app.

        
          *I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! returns Sunday 17th November at 9pm on ITV.
        
      
