
# FBI's Top Lawyer From The Apple Encryption Fight Says Law Enforcement Needs To Suck It Up And Embrace Encryption

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Mike Masnick**

Original: [Techdirt](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20191101/17080043309/fbis-top-lawyer-apple-encryption-fight-says-law-enforcement-needs-to-suck-it-up-embrace-encryption.shtml)

Jim Baker was the FBI's General Counsel during its well-publicized attempt to use the San Bernardino shootings from 2016 as a wedge to force Apple to build a backdoor into its data encryption scheme. As we noted at the time, this seemed like a very clear, somewhat cynical attempt to use a high profile attack as an excuse to force Apple's hand in building back doors. When that battle happened, then FBI director Jim Comey took to the pages of Lawfare to insist that there were good reasons for the FBI to fight with Apple in court to force it to create a backdoor.
Now, Baker has taken to the pages of Lawfare as well to... apparently point out that he and the FBI were totally wrong about all of that and that his former colleagues at the FBI and DOJ need to get it over it and embrace encryption. It's quite a piece.
Baker defends his own work on the San Bernardino case, but is now recognizing how dangerous backdoors can be and how important encryption is. He takes current Attorney General William Barr to task for his new anti-encryption propaganda campaign:
Baker even highlights a key point many of us have pointed out in the past. For all the talk of "going dark," law enforcement has more access to information than ever before in history:
Indeed, Baker highlights how misleading Barr and others (including Baker's old boss, Comey's) arguments are when they say that encryption leads to a lawless digital space:
Baker also highlights how undermining encryption puts us all at risk in a wide variety of ways, from basically handing over security services to non-US companies, to putting all our data at risk, to also creating a great opening for countries who wish to do us harm. There are a lot of really great points in this post, way beyond what I'm highlighting here, so I highly recommend reading the whole thing. Indeed, towards the end, Baker (correctly) highlights that protecting our own digital security almost certainly is a better way of protecting Americans than being able to hack into the phones of a few people:
A key theme throughout the whole piece is that it's time for law enforcement to accept reality and to stop pretending there's some fantasy "magic bullet" or "golden key" that will allow them to safely backdoor their way into encrypted devices. He admits that this may, sometimes, make law enforcement's job harder, but the benefits for everyone's safety so vastly outweigh that potential downside as to suggest this shouldn't even be much of a debate.
All of this is stuff that many of us who have fought against encryption backdoors have been saying for decades, but it's pretty surprising (to the level of almost shocking) that Baker is now expressing this view -- given his role in literally working to backdoor Apple's encryption. This is not a privacy activist. This is someone who was basically in charge of the FBI's last big effort to have the courts break encryption. Baker insists that his actual views haven't changed very much, though that does seem at least somewhat difficult to square with the FBI's position in the Apple legal fight. But, either way, it's great to see someone of his stature and experience now agreeing that undermining encryption would be very, very dangerous -- and that he's willing to tell his former colleagues, directly, that they, too, should embrace this position.
