
# 2020 Hyundai Grandeur facelift unveiled

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:32:28+00:00**

Author: **Derek Fung**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805348/2020-hyundai-grandeur/)

- shares
The just-unveiled Hyundai Grandeur is a dramatic redesign of the large front-wheel drive sedan launched in 2016.
The new Grandeur adopts a face heavily inspired by the 2018 HDC-1 'Le Fil Rouge' concept car, one of the first vehicles designed under the aegis of Luc Donckerwolke, the Hyundai Motor Group's head of design.
Instead of the outgoing car's conservative front-end design, the Grandeur will now feature a small set of headlights tightly integrated with a grille populated by metal-colour diamond-shaped pieces, some of which light up as part of the car's unique night-time graphic.
The changes to the side and rear don't seem to be quite as dramatic, but interestingly the car is said to be not only 60mm longer (at 4990mm) overall, but also have a 40mm longer wheelbase and a 10mm wider body.
On the inside, the Grandeur has been treated to a new dashboard with a large, wide 12.3-inch touchscreen infotainment system, as well as Volkswagen Passat-like horizontal bars linking up the central and side air vents.
Other changes include a smaller secondary touchscreen for most of the climate control system, a 12.3-inch fully digital instrumentation display, a new centre console, and a new steering wheel straight from the latest Sonata.
A number of drivetrains will be available with the new Grandeur: a Smartstream 2.5-litre four-cylinder, a 2.4-litre hybrid, a 3.0-litre LPG engine, and a 213kW 3.3-litre V6.
The facelifted Grandeur goes on sale later this month in South Korea.
The Australian large non-premium sedan market is a faint shadow of its former self, so it seems hugely unlikely the heavily updated Grandeur will make its way down under and revive the nameplate which was last sold locally in 2011.
13
nextprevious2020 Hyundai Grandeur facelift unveiled
