
# Keanu Reeves Walked The Red Carpet With His Girlfriend For First Time In 20 Years

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:28:28+00:00**

Author: **Cameron Frew**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/film-and-tv/keanu-reeves-walked-the-red-carpet-with-his-girlfriend-for-first-time-in-20-years/)


        He’s breathtaking, cool, pure, and unfortunately, he’s taken – John Wick himself, Keanu Reeves, walked out onto the red carpet holding hands with artist Alexandra Grant.
      
Advertisements
The Matrix actor, 55, has generally avoided public displays of affection during his illustrious 35-year career – he’s been linked to other celebs, such as actress Sandra Bullock, but his most well-known relationship was with the late Jennifer Syme.
However, on Saturday, November 3, Reeves was pictured holding hands with Grant, 46, at the LACMA Art + Film Gala Presented By Gucci, in Los Angeles.
Advertisements
While this may be their first official outing, the pair have known each other for some time. In 2011, they collaborated on Reeves’ first book, Ode to Happiness – which Grant illustrated. They teamed up again for Reeves’ 2016 book, Shadows, with Grant again on illustrating duties.
They then went on to found X Artists’ Books, which focuses on publishing ‘thoughtful, high-quality, artist-centered books that fit within and between genres’.

        Speaking to Los Angeles Magazine in 2018 about their publishing house, Grant said: 
      
Keanu and Alexandra have also been snapped together previously – in October, they were seen enjoying dinner with one another in Santa Monica, California.
Advertisements
Reeves met his last publicly-known girlfriend Jennifer Syme five years after the death of his best friend River Phoenix in 1993. The pair ‘fell instantly in love,’ and Syme fell pregnant a year later.
On December 24, 1999, while the Canadian actor was filming The Matrix, Ava Archer Symes-Reeves was stillborn. The grief of losing a child caused a rift between the couple, and they broke up a few weeks later.
On April 2, 2001, at the age of 28, Syme was travelling home from a party when she was killed in a car accident.
Advertisements

        Discussing his grief with Parade in 2006, Reeves said: 
      
We’re happy for you, Keanu.

        Cameron Frew
      
After graduating from Glasgow Caledonian University with an NCTJ and BCTJ-accredited Multimedia Journalism degree, Cameron ventured into the world of print journalism at The National, while also working as a freelance film journalist on the side, becoming an accredited Rotten Tomatoes critic in the process. He’s now left his Scottish homelands and took up residence at UNILAD as a journalist.
