
# Strictly's Alex Scott forced to lie on spot as Chris Kamara 'leaks' result hours early

Published at: **2019-11-03T13:30:55+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/chris-kamara-awkwardly-appears-slip-20801777)

Chris Kamara burst into a fit of giggles after appearing to reveal the results of Strictly Come Dancing ahead of Sunday's official announcement.
The awkward moment came as Chris grilled contestant Alex Scott on the competition as they co-presented Goals on Sunday.
During Saturday night's show, Alex was praised for her elegant American Smooth with Kevin Clifton - with original partner Neil Jones being sidelined due to injury .
While the results were revealed to the stars last night - they won't be aired on BBC One until Sunday evening.
Alex had to dodge a series of tricky questions from Kamara during their Sky Sports Broadcast on Sunday.
"What's the dance next weekend?" Chris asked her.
Ex Arsenal star Alex stared blankly at him before replying: "Well... it's the results show tonight so, I don't know yet."
"Oh, right," said Chris.
"From here, I go there [to the studio]," explained Alex.
Realising his mistake, Chris roared with laughter as Alex tried to move things along.
But fans immediately picked up on the awkward moment on Twitter .
"Amazing swerve from Alex Scott here," praised one viewer.
Another replied: "Does she really think people don’t know the results show was recorded last night?"
 
Strictly viewers have been left reeling again after after the results of Sunday's show were leaked online.
With fans searching for gossip using the Strictly hashtag on twitter, many have stumbled across the result by accident.
Mirror Online knows who has left the show but won't spoil the result for viewers keen to watch it unfold tomorrow.
However some furious fans who have discovered the result have flocked to Twitter in fury. After a number of controversial exits in recent weeks, it doesn't seem like this Sunday's departure will please everyone either.
With the competition heating up on the approach to Blackpool the episode produced some huge talking points.
Karim Zeroual and Amy Dowden soared to the top of the leaderboard after their Quickstep performance - everyone loved it as they rose to the occasion.
At the other end of the table are Emma Barton and Anton du Beke, who finished last on the leaderboard with 22.
The results show airs Sunday 3 November at 7.20pm on BBC One and BBC iPlayer .
