
# Holy Sh*t, Kristen Stewart Says She Wanted to Marry Robert Pattinson at One Point

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:32:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/entertainment/a29701407/kristen-stewart-marry-robert-pattinson-howard-stern-show/?utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=social-media&utm_campaign=socialflowFBCOS)

Sure, the year might be 2019, but all of a sudden, it feels like I’ve fallen into a massive time machine and I can’t get out. The Jonas Brothers are a chart-topping band again, The Lizzie McGuire Show is getting a reboot, and oh, yeah! Your favorite Twilight actress, Kristen Stewart, is openly talking about her (former) relationship with Robert Pattinson in interviews. Nope, you don’t have to wipe away any dust from your cell phone, glasses, or computer screen—you read that correctly.
During an appearance on The Howard Stern Show, Kristen spilled a bunch of tea about her time on the Twilight set and did a deep dive into her relationship with Robert. Kristen admitted that having a relationship with Robert was difficult because the paparazzi would often ruin it for them, and they struggled with whether to share their romance openly or keep it to themselves.
“You deprive yourself of so many experiences,” Kristen said. “We didn’t walk down the street holding hands because we were like, ‘We don’t wanna give it to ’em.’ But then, we didn’t get to walk down the street holding hands and it sucked.” Poor Robsten!
Now that the dust has settled (because Robsten is over), Kristen admitted that she feels kinda weird about discussing what went on between her and Rob. “I’ve actually never been allowed to just say what happened, because I was so self-conscious about seeming like an attention seeker,” she explained. “We were together for years, that was my first [love],” adding that Rob is “the best.”
Related Story

        Robert Pattinson and KStew Were Spotted Hanging!
      
Then Howard went in waaay deeper with the questions, straight-up asking Kristen, “Was there a point you would’ve gotten married? Do you think?” Kristen’s response? “I don’t know,” she said. “I wanted to...yeah, no, I’ve never been in....” But of course, Howard pressed on and said, “If he proposed, you would’ve gotten married.”
“I don’t know,” Kristen said. “I’m not a super-duper traditionalist, but at the same time...every relationship I’ve ever been in, I thought that was it. I’ve never really been the most casual person.”
