
# 'We are a special country': South Africa hopes World Cup win can bring unity

Published at: **2019-11-03T11:31:08+00:00**

Author: **Jason Burke**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/03/south-africa-hopes-rugby-world-cup-win-can-bring-unity-ramaphosa-desmond-tutu)

South Africans continued to celebrate their Rugby World Cup triumph on Sunday, with many in the sometimes fractious and troubled nation echoing Springbok captain Siya Kolisi’s post-match message of unity and strength.
Images of Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, congratulating South African players in the changing room – including half-naked scrum-half Faf de Klerk – went viral on social media and was broadcast repeatedly by TV networks.
The nation’s president, Cyril Ramaphosa, due to fly back from Japan on Sunday after appearing with the team to lift the trophy, described “a historic moment”.
“This historic win has been achieved with the passionate support of more than 57 million South Africans who have been inspired by the Springboks’ performances throughout the tournament.
“This is a powerful indicator of what we can achieve when we set goals for ourselves and we work together to achieve success,” Ramaphosa, who took power last year, said.“It is a moment that is embedded forever in our national memory.”
Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the Nobel prize winner and leader of the decades-long struggle against the racist, repressive apartheid regime, said the Springboks had restored “a self-doubting nation’s belief.”
“The win has provided a welcome moment of optimism,” Tutu said. “Though there has been much progress since the dark days of apartheid, South Africa remains one of the most unequal countries in the world, and deep tensions between communities remain.
“Violent crime is a serious problem, with poor people most likely to be victims. There is deep public frustration with soaring unemployment, low economic growth, patchy delivery of basic services and widespread corruption.
“We are a special country, and an extraordinary people. On days such as this we understand that when we pull together the sky is the limit. When we believe in ourselves we can achieve our dreams,” Tutu said.
