
# Iran Beach Soccer Team looks to emulate Russia feat

Published at: **2019-11-03T19:22:00+00:00**

Author: **Mir Farhad Ali Khan**

Original: [PersianFootball.com](http://www.persianfootball.com/news/2019/11/03/iran-looks-to-emulate-russia-feat/)

Gulf Today – DUBAI, Defending champions Iran have landed in Dubai with the mission of reediting the 2018 crown and equalling Brazil and Russia as the most decorated sides at the Intercontinental Beach Soccer Cup records.
After clinching the Bronze Medal at the last World Beach Games in Qatar just a couple of weeks ago, the team feels in the perfect mood to take on such a challenge.
Grit, talent and perfect teamwork, plus the support of their passionate fans, give Abbas Hashempour’s team all the necessary ingredients to go all the way in this year’s competition, taking place in Kite Beach between the Nov.5-9.
 “Only the most powerful teams take part in the Intercontinental Beach Soccer Cup, so we are fully aware of how difficult it is to prevail in such a competitive arena.
“Russia, for example, is a team that can do real harm on you if you are not fully focused and fight fiercely every single second of the game.
“But we also are, as we have repeatedly shown, capable of winning any team in the world. This is what we have in our minds and our hearts, and we will try our best to beat all our opponents and reach the final”, Iran national coach Hashempour explained.
The tough opposition will not be the only obstacle for Iran to accomplish their mission, though. The Persian side will be missing one of the key players, 2018 Rising Star Mohammad Moradi, due to injury, and some other players will also be back in competition after injuries, what leaves a question mark on their outcome during the coming days, but coach Hashempour believes the collective strength will help the team overcome these setbacks.
As the defending champions, the Iranian side will have all the eyes put on them, but this is not something the team is concerned about.
“Everyone will be expecting a lot from us, but we are determined to show everybody why we are the champions. We want to demonstrate again how powerful we are”, the coach admitted.
Iran were drawn in Group B together with also-favourite Russia, Egypt and CONCACAF champions Mexico and will be making their debut, precisely, against the Azteca side on Tuesday.
 That will mark the first step in their road to reediting the crown and claiming their third Intercontinental Beach Soccer Cup, which is organised by Dubai Sports Council in association with Beach Soccer Worldwide.
 Partnership with Careem The organisers, meanwhile, have signed a deal with Careem, the region’s No1 ride-booking app, to facilitate the travel of fans to Kite Beach for the matches. All fans attending the matches will be eligible for a 30 per cent fare discount through a special discount code.
