
# Reports | Jasprit Bumrah to be back in Indian colours in January

Published at: **2019-11-02T10:11:33+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/02/reports-jasprit-bumrah-to-be-back-in-indian-colours-in-january?utm_medium=rss)


        The New Zealand tour, which will kick start India’s new calendar year of 2020, might very well be the toughest one they have played since a year and Jasprit Bumrah is recovering well to make a comeback in the series. A BCCI source believes that he will be the key to beat the Kiwis at their home.
      
According to a TOI report, Jasprit Bumrah’s recovery is on track as he looks to make a comeback early next year. He might be a part of India’s New Zealand tour early in 2020 which is surely a song to the ears of skipper Virat Kohli and head coach Ravi Shastri. Bumrah is currently nursing a stress fracture and according to the report, a reliable source has revealed that Bumrah’s post-Diwali assessment showed that his recovery is on track and he might take to the field in January next year.
"He underwent assessment and his recovery is on track. Can expect him to be back in Indian colours in January and the Australia series could be the one," the source said.
India is set to host both Sri Lanka and Australia in January before travelling to New Zealand, where they will be playing two Tests, three ODIs and five T20Is. The source also stressed the importance of a quality bowling side when playing in New Zealand.
"When you are playing in New Zealand, the bowling becomes all the more important. As you have seen in the past as well, it is more about taking 20 wickets there than scoring big hundreds. So, the team management was very clear that they are happy to wait and have him back at his best in time for the New Zealand tour," the source pointed out.
BCCI is also looking to manage the workload of the Indian team who seem to be playing cricket non-stop throughout the year. Effective management of workload would go a long way in keeping the key players of a team fit. Having said so, skipper Virat Kohli has been rested ahead of the limited-overs series against Bangladesh and will return in the Test series which features India’s maiden day-night Test match.
