
# Wines to beat the chill on Bonfire Night

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:08+00:00**

Author: **David Williams**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/food/2019/nov/03/wines-to-beat-the-chill-on-bonfire-night)


        Spicy, smoky and affordable: three great wines to help you get into the spirit on 5 November
      
Marks & Spencer Nero d’Avola, Sicily, Italy 2018 (£6.50, Marks & Spencer) Since giving up smoking a few years ago, Bonfire Night has become one of the rare occasions outside the summer months when I’ll be drinking alfresco. Of course, the wines I’ll be looking for on Tuesday are nothing like the sunlit bottles of July. I’m after something that gives the impression of being warming – no matter how illusory the effect may be. It has to be pretty robust as well, since I’m not going to be drinking it in the sort of conditions (or from the type of vessel) where I’ll be able to appreciate any subtle aromas. It would be nice if it were cheap, too, for the same reasons. Feed all that into the wine-style generator and the first option fed back on the ticker tape is Marks & Spencer’s southern Italian red, with its tangy cherry and dark plummy fruitiness.
Aldi Vinsobres, Rhône, France 2018 (£6.99, Aldi) The south of France is the home of what I think of as the classic Bonfire Night wine. From the Rhône in the west, and on east through the Languedoc to the Roussillon, winemakers here specialise in powerful reds each with their own character but almost always on a theme of brambly fruit, spice, smoke and herb – wines that are very happy to be drunk from a mug held in one fingerless-gloved hand, with a sausage sandwich or a flask of spicy bean soup in the other. Some recent favourites: the darkly savoury, black cherry juicy Alain Gringon Carignan Vielles Vignes, PGI Pays de l’Hérault 2018 (£7.99, Majestic); the bright blackberry juiciness and peppery hit of Waitrose & Partners Marselan, Mediterranée 2017 (£6.99, Waitrose); and the always reliable, super-succculent, spiced dark berries of Famille Perrin La Vieille Ferme Rouge, Vin de France 2018 (from £7.50, Tesco; The Co-op).
Morrisons The Best South Africa Shiraz, Western Cape, South Africa 2017 (£7.25, Morrisons) Other good sources of honest-to-goodness bonfire-side spiciness include south east Spain, where the monastrell variety (known as mourvèdre in the south of France) does its big bold dark plummy thing with flashes of smoke, spice and just a touch of sweet autumnal chestnuttiness in a pair of bargains: Organic Carta Roja Pura Monastrell 2018 from Jumilla (£7.75, Morrisons) and Tapa Roja Old Vines Monastrell 2018 from Yecla (£7, Marks & Spencer). The boldness of Shiraz, again served with a hint of smoke, is in full effect in Morrisons’ South African bargain and, with freshly milled pepper and crunchy fruit, in Sainsbury’s excellent Taste the Difference Western Australian Shiraz 2018 (£6.75). And for those with a sweeter tooth, or requiring more fortification to ward off the chill, Morrisons Ruby Port NV (£7.15), made by the Symington Family, is brilliant value: a sweet, simple but succulent dark fruit compote.

        Follow David on Twitter @Daveydaibach
      

        
          This article contains affiliate links, which means we may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by any advertiser or commercial initiative. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that third-party cookies will be set. More information.
        
      
