
# Liverpool vs Genk: Five things we learned as Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain puts champions in command

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:02:51+00:00**

Author: **Mark Critchley**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/european/liverpool-vs-genk-score-highlights-goals-result-champions-league-a9186836.html)


        Job done? Not quite, but nearly
      
On a night of fireworks at Stamford Bridge, things were rather more sedate at Anfield. Liverpool moved top of Group E with a 2-1 victory over Genk, though survived a brief fright before half time when Ally Mbwana Samatta’s bullet header cancelled out Georginio Wijnaldum’s opening goal.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain - who started at centre-forward - restored the European champions’ lead shortly after the restart and despite some late Genk pressure, the three points were secured. The result means beating Napoli at Anfield later this month will ensure progression with a game to spare.

        Keita quietly impresses
      
When he trudged off the pitch at the start of the second half during that madcap 5-5 draw with Arsenal, Naby Keita’s Anfield career appeared to have taken another step backwards. Jurgen Klopp claimed that a player who has spent plenty of time on the treatment table lately had suffered yet another injury.
Thankfully, it was not a serious one and less than a week later, Keita put in a quietly impressive performance. His passing was typically forward-thinking and adventurous, and he made several excellent recoveries of possession. The Guinea international still has work to do to establish himself in Klopp’s plans but this was a positive night.

        Salah forgets his shooting boots
      
Against a side currently sitting eighth in Belgium’s top flight, this felt like a chance for Mohamed Salah to fill his boots. By his high standards, he is enduring a relatively barren spell. Domestically, his last non-penalty goal came in September. Salah’s form has been better in Europe, but his finishing on this occasion was wayward.
No player on the pitch had more shots than Salah’s six and there were several bursts through Genk’s backline that ultimately came to nothing. He appeared a little hesitant at time, lacking his usual dead-eyed menace. There is nothing major to be concerned about but the sooner he starts scoring regular from open play again, the better.

        Risk-averse line-up reversed late on
      
Unsurprisingly, Klopp’s line-up was greatly influenced by the visit of Manchester City on Sunday. Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mané were named among the substitutes and so too was Andy Robertson, scorer of the equaliser at Villa Park and a player for whom there is no natural replacement.
To show caution made sense given the calibre of opposition and the sheer importance of Sunday so it was slightly surprising to see both Mané, Robertson and Firmino all introduced in the closing stages, with Naby Keita, match-winner Oxlade-Chamberlain and Divock Origi replaced. Luckily for Klopp, they all escaped unscathed.

        Inability to keep clean sheet concerning
      
A defence that was rightly vaunted for its impenetrability this time last year continues to wait for a clean sheet. It is now eight games since Liverpool’s last shut-out, even though they are generally dominating matches and keeping the opposition’s number of attempts at goal to a minimum.
The season’s only clean sheets have come against Burnley, Sheffield United and third-tier MK Dons. This was a prime opportunity to add to that list and bolster the defensive record before City’s visit this weekend but Samatta’s powerful header means Klopp’s defence was breached once again.
