
# Are Tesla Investors Missing The Point?

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/04/are-tesla-investors-missing-the-point/)

Tesla (NASDAQ: TSLA) stock rallied by close to 24% since it published its Q3 2019 results last week, posting a surprise profit. However, taking a closer look at the underlying numbers and comparing them with the previous quarter (Q2 2019) and the year-ago quarter (Q3 2018), we believe that the markets could be overlooking some negatives in the earnings release.View our interactive dashboard analysis on Are Tesla Investors Overlooking Some Key Trends In Q3 Earnings?

        Tesla reported positive Operating Cash Flow in Q2 as well at $864 million, versus only $756 million in Q3, but investors didn’t care to jump and buy TSLA at that time
      

        Tesla’s Free Cash Flow was also positive, at around $614 million in Q2, compared to $371 million in Q3. Investors still didn’t jump with joy in Q2, but in Q3 they bought the stock fast until it spiked ~20%.
      

        Tesla’s Earnings need to be subject to more scrutiny, with declining D&A expenses, and higher one-off revenue items
      

        Tesla’s Automotive Revenues are almost flat sequentially & down YoY
      
For more information on Tesla’s revenues, view our interactive dashboard analysis.
And, for more Trefis analysis, view our interactive dashboard analysis Deep-Dive X-Ray: What Drove Tesla’s Q3 Profits & Which Parts Are Sustainable?
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
