
# Outrage on GMB as Millennial insists children shouldn't be taught about WW2 in school

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:32:51+00:00**

Author: **Lucy Needham, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/outrage-gmb-millennial-insists-children-20788651)

A fierce row broke out on Friday's Good Morning Britain over whether children should be taught more about World War II.
Ben Shepherd and Kate Garraway introduced the debate after contestants on this year's This Apprentice admitted they didn't know when the war broke out.
Star of The Circle Freddie Bentley appeared in the ITV studio where he argued there are bigger things to worry about in the present times than reflecting on past history.
Freddie said: "It was a hard situation World War II, however, I will stand by the point it’s educational in a way [but] there are so many problems going on in the world.”
The reality star argued that Brexit and Climate Change were more pressing topics to discuss and schools should 'let go of it a little bit' in relation to the war.
He also claimed that learning about death was damaging to children's mental health.
Former Head of Ofsted Sir Michael Wilshaw strongly disagreed, arguing: "People should know about the Second World War, the First World War, the conflicts which have taken place and a fight for freedom you and I enjoy."
To which Freddie responded: "I totally get that but I don’t think in needs to be put in such a young way to young children mentally - their mental health to be told this amount of people died for you."
"I remember learning it as a child and thinking, ‘My god, it’s so intense,'" added Freddie.
Wilshaw told him that children 'need to know it’s a dangerous world out there.'
“They need to know crossing the road is sometimes dangerous. They need to know if they get too fat, there are obesity issues," said Wilshaw.
Host Kate interrupted the debate to say she'd spoke to kids at the D-Day memorials who had told her that learning about the war helped them reflect on those who had fought and died for the country. 
Viewers at home also got stuck into the debate via Twitter .
"What is this kid going on about on GMB about getting rid of teaching WW2 for learning about life? Both should be taught. The Second World War is a stark warning for politics and society as a whole. Maybe if he listened in class he would get that," fired one.
"ARE YOU HAVING A LAUGH!!!!! Not talking about the war in school? Not educating them on what went wrong so it doesn’t happen again!? You need to learn respect young man," said another.
A third argued: "i've been teaching history for over 10 years and never seen students traumatized, but sometimes they get upset which is natural. It's really important we continue to teach kids about the evils of war and mistakes which led to wars (that we're repeating currently)."
While others backed Freddie's view point.
"There are so much more pressures on young people at the moment. Lots of mental health worries," commented one.
