
# B2B E-Commerce Is Growing And Brands Need To Be Tech-Ready

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jia Wertz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jiawertz/2019/11/01/b2b-e-commerce-is-growing-and-brands-need-to-be-tech-ready/)

I once heard a barista ask a customer, after they ordered a macchiato, if they knew what a macchiato was. I found it odd at first, but in serving the general public, they probably encounter many people who don’t know, thanks in part to the Starbucks version (which is called a macchiato, but alas is not one).If only that barista worked in B2B. Dealing with businesses instead of the general public, you know you’re working with experts. When you interface with a prospective B2B customer, they’ve already done 12 online searches and are 57% of the way through the sales funnel. Conversations can happen at a higher level, and there’s less explaining to do.
“Working in SaaS is exciting because you’re giving other businesses the boost they need to succeed in their own visions,” says Udit Goenka, founder and CEO of PitchGround, a company that designs launches for software-as-a-service (SaaS) startups. It makes you part of an inter-company team supporting each other’s profitability. 
Let’s look at how B2B businesses support other companies and succeed from their success. 

        Identify A Common Pain Point In E-Commerce
      
Goenka creates bespoke ‘lifetime deals’ for clients to offer their customers, an enticement to drive early adopters. This brings the client an influx of cash, much needed in their startup journey, as well as a surplus of market research from early adopter input, and some enthusiastic brand ambassadors who are excited about getting a good deal for on-boarding early. Since their clients are startups, they have to do this in a way that works for a young company putting every dollar to work.
“Because we’re working with startups, we’ve structured our system so there are no up-front costs,” says Goenka. “By identifying a need in the launch cycle of SaaS startups, we’ve created a win-win scenario that profits both clients’ companies and our own.” SaaS in e-commerce is so competitive that a successful launch usually requires outside assistance. 
Every business process has pain points. The key is to find them, make them easier, and develop solutions. 

        User Feedback Is Your Bread And Butter
      
In 1998, with only $200, Simon Grabowski founded GetResponse to fill a need in his own business journey. He wanted a more automated way to deliver regular email content to customers, and his method worked well enough to take his email SaaS from his native Poland to markets around the world.
A long term success like this is a living homage to the value of customer feedback. GetResponse has seen long-term success because Grabowski has continuously tailored it to meet the needs of other businesses. Listening to consumers and making updates based on their evolving input is critical to longevity. E-commerce and email marketing has changed a lot since 1998, and the service companies provide should always be changing, too.

        Offer Freebies During Trial-And-Error Periods
      
B2B relationships are slower and longer lasting than those of B2C counterparts. When companies are relying on a B2B company to keep their business running efficiently, they are invested in keeping the service they receive in play. That’s why it’s important for B2B companies to offer plenty of incentives to their clients while they are working out any kinks during their own growth process. 
David Darmanin found this to be true when his B2B SaaS Hotjar, a tool that visualizes user behavior on websites, was scaling up. Hotjar had a billing snafu as they transitioned from beta mode to a free trial version, as an ease-in to the fully realized subscription model. Businesses using the free beta version were billed unexpectedly.
“I quickly took ownership of the issue by owning up to the mistake, addressing it and giving affected customers an extra month of free usage,” says Darmanin. He reminds us that things can easily go wrong at some point. “Our concern for our customers paid off, though. They were delighted by how transparent and accountable we were.” The takeaway here is clear. Be transparent and accountable in your own growth journey, so when there is a shaky step, your customers will be understanding and forgiving.
That’s the beauty of B2B – other businesses understand the growing pains companies face. 
“Serving business clients is powerful because the creative synchronicity works on another level,” says Goenka. Using SaaS to serve e-commerce clients gives you a supportive role in e-commerce without the frenzy of B2C marketing.
