
# Sleb Safari: Bow to Nadine Coyle, queen of the I'm A Celebrity jungle

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **MAEVE CONNOLLY**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/04/news/nadine-coyle-queen-of-the-i-m-a-celebrity-jungle-1754181/)

TWO weeks and counting until a swarm of celebrities descend on the Australian ‘jungle’ for the annual celebration of tantrums and testicles that is I’m A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here!
Sleb Safari would remind any celebrity dithering over signing on the dotted line of Nick Knowles’ insight after taking part last year.
“The fun of the programme is they try and make it look like we are doing nothing all day and complaining about sitting in the sunshine.
“But everyone’s worn-out as they haven’t had enough to eat or drink and have been dragging heavy bags of logs and water up and down the hill all the time.”
A number of public figures have ruled themselves out and Sleb Safari is most disappointed that John Bercow is among them.
A spokesman for John poo-pooed rumours that he would enter one jungle after having left another, which is a pity as Sleb Safari would have loved to have heard him booming “Oar-duh” around the camp when rows broke out.
Two alumni of the Corrie cobbles are rumoured to be taking part. Wouldn’t it be great to see Kirk and Tyrone in there? Surely they’ve eaten enough of Betty’s hotpots between them that they could rustle one up with their eyes closed and hands tied behind their back?
Another pair the bookies are convinced are going to leap out of a helicopter are Dani and Danny Dyer. Please, please, please, telly gods, make the bookies’ dreams come true.
Other celebrities being talked about are Duncan James from Blue – who has a phobia of snakes – Stacey Dooley, Ian Wright and Kate Garraway.
Kym Marsh, also of Coronation Street, is likely to become a campmate in 2020.
Earlier this year, Kym wrote in her OK! Magazine column that "I'd be terrible! I wouldn't like the bugs or the sleep deprivation and I'd never jump out of a helicopter. My campmates would probably starve because I'd fail to win any stars!
"Never say never, but I don't want to do any reality shows so soon after leaving the Street later this year."
Kym knows fine rightly that she’s written a cover letter to the I’m A Celebrity bosses. Scared of insects? Tick. Scared of heights? Tick. She’s exactly what they’re looking for in the jungle.
How-and-ever, Sleb Safari has saved the best for last. The most excited (rumoured) contestant is yer Derry wan. That’s right, the one, the only, the one and only with the inimitable accent Nadine Coyle is (maybe) going to take part in I’m A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here!
They should just hold the coronation now and declare her queen of the jungle because Nadine is going to wipe the jungle floor with them all.
 
THIS week Sleb Safari has two £50 vouchers for Hillmount garden centre in Belfast to give away.
The vouchers are for the garden centre’s annual ladies shopping night which is taking place on November 29.
There will be a free glass of sparkling or mulled wine on arrival and Hillmount will be open until 9pm. The Belfast branch is located at 56/58 Upper Braniel Road, BT5 7TX, and ladies night is from 5pm to 9pm.
To be in with a chance to win one of the vouchers enter the following question correctly:
What is the name of the family who own Hillmount?
Email your answer to competitions@irishnews.com and mark your entry Sleb Safari/Hillmount Competition. Please include your name and a contact number. Usual Irish News rules apply and the competition closes at noon on Wednesday November 6.
 
The GC has created a perfume and named it Pink Diva. Sleb Safari could leave it there, couldn't it?
Gemma says she wanted to make "a luxury scent for an affordable price" and that "just like Marilyn Monroe" who famously said she only wore Chanel No.5 to bed "I only wear Pink Diva now".
And what of the top notes Gemma?
"It smells like all the hotels in Dubai."
Mmmm-kay – what else?
"You’ll smell me before you see me. People will know you mean business when you’re wearing it, mate."
Sounds... ominous?
 
Gabrielle Union-Wade hasn't changed one bit since Bring It On which was released 19 years ago. 19 years!
