
# UFC 244 Results: Winners, Bonuses And Highlights

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Mazique**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brianmazique/2019/11/03/ufc-244-results-winners-bonuses-and-highlights/)

The BMF title fight didn’t end the way most of us wanted it to, but Jorge Masvidal still proved he was the better man against Nate Diaz on Saturday at UFC 244 in Madison Square Garden. Unfortunately, the fight was stopped after the third round because of a nasty cut over Diaz’s right eye.
The ending was anticlimactic, but Masvidal had dominated the first three rounds. He landed some serious punches, elbows and a plethora of hard kicks to the body. Diaz was visibly hurt on at least three occasions, but he showed his grit in withstanding Masvidal’s onslaught.
Diaz had some moments in the third round, but looked somewhat over-matched in stand-up exchanges. Because of this, the abrupt ending wasn’t as much of a tragedy as it could have been in a fight that looked a little less one-sided.
Both Masvidal and Diaz expressed an interest in having a rematch. Diaz’s eye will need to heal first, but I’d expect to see them clash again some time in the first quarter of 2020.
Here is a look at all of the results from UFC 244. The event was a rousing success from a gate standpoint. The $6.5 million generated was the second highest at MSG.

        Results
      

        Kevin Lee Registers KO of the Year
      
The nastiest KO I’ve ever seen in mixed martial arts was Edson Barboza’s spinning wheel kick finish against Terry Etim, but Kevin Lee’s head-kick KO of Gregor Gillespie was in the same class.
Take a look at it:
UFC announcer Joe Rogan said, “this was the kind of KO that you’re not sure how to feel.” I concur. The skill and precision was mind-blowing, but the violence of the moment and the physical reaction from Gillespie was enough to evoke an uncomfortable emotion.
The win snapped a two-fight losing streak for Lee and handed Gillespie the first loss of his career. Lee earned a $50,000 bonus as one of the Performances of the Night.

        Corey Anderson Shocks Johnny Walker
      
Johnny Walker was easily the most hyped light heavyweight prospect in the UFC. I said was, as in past tense, because Corey Anderson brought the locomotion to a screeching halt. An overhand right initially hurt Walker, and another straight punch put him on dream street.
The referee stepped in to call a halt to the bout. Walker had been mowing down opponents like uncut grass since coming to the UFC. He was the favorite despite Anderson having more UFC experience and a higher ranking with the promotion.
Anderson proved Walker wasn’t quite ready for the praise that had bestowed upon him. Anderson took home the other $50,000 bonus.

        Edmen Shahbazyan Destroys Brad Tavares
      
Without a doubt, the most impressive up-and-coming prospect in the sport is Edmen Shahbazyan. At just 21 years old, Shahbazyan has already tallied an 11-0 record with finishes in all but one of his fights. On Saturday, veteran Brad Tavares was Shahbazyan’s latest victim.
Shahbazyan hurt Tavares with a 1-2 combination and then finished him off with his own left head kick.
Shahbazyan my have earned himself a spot in the Top 10 with this performance. He’s so young, it’s important he isn’t rushed, but it’s hard not to put him in with the top 185-pound fighters over the next two years.
