
# US diplomat confirms details of Trump's Ukraine deal

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:51:40+00:00**

Author: **David Coffey with RFI**

Original: [RFI](http://en.rfi.fr/americas/20191106-us-diplomat-acknowledges-what-democrats-call-quid-pro-quo)


        As the presidential impeachment investigation continues, US diplomat Gordon Sondland has confirmed what Democrats contend was a clear link between Donald Trump's demand for information about his political opponent, Joe Biden, and the supply of military aid to Ukraine.
      
In an addendum to his earlier sworn testimony, the former US Ambassador to the European Union said that military assistance to the east European ally was being withheld until Ukraine's new president agreed to release a statement about fighting corruption as demanded by Trump.
Sondland said he was the one who carried the message to a Ukrainian official on the sidelines of a conference in Warsaw attended by US Vice President Mike Pence.
The three-page update, tucked beneath hundreds of pages of sworn testimony from Sondland and former Ukraine Special Envoy Kurt Volker, was released by House investigators as opposition Democrats prepared to push the closed-door sessions to public hearings as soon as next week.

        Trump remains adamant that he did nothing wrong
      
Trump has denied that any deal was struck, but Democrats say there is a singular narrative developing since the president's July 25 call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy when he first asked for "a favor". That request, which sparked the impeachment inquiry, included a public investigation into Ukrainian activities by Democratic former Vice President Joe Biden and his son, and Trump's allegations of Ukrainian interference in the 2016 US election.
On Wednesday, the State Department's third-ranking official is expected to tell Congress that political considerations were behind the agency's refusal to deliver a robust defense of the former US ambassador to Ukraine.
People familiar with the matter say David Hale plans to tell congressional impeachment investigators on Wednesday that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and other senior officials determined that defending Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch would hurt the effort to free up US military assistance to Ukraine. The people familiar with the matter were not authorised to discuss Hale's appearance publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
