
# Forest guardians: the Asháninka of Peru – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:08:05+00:00**

Author: **Alicia Canter**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/gallery/2019/nov/06/forest-guardians-the-ashaninka-of-peru)

In an area of the Amazon vulnerable to illegal loggers, Cool Earth, a UK-based charity, is working with the Asháninka people to reduce deforestation. Photographer Alicia Canter travelled to Cutivireni in central Peru
A group of men wait on the dock at Puerto Ocopa on Peru’s Ene river
Locals take a boat along the Ene – there is no road transport
An army checkpoint on the Ene river. Since Shining Path guerrillas made this area their base in the 1980s, there has been a military presence
The rainforest in Cutivireni. This part of the rainforest is under threat from illegal logging and small-scale farming
Carrying coffee and other supplies to Mativaiqui, an Asháninka community on the Ene river. Mobile traders stop off at Mativaiqui once a week to buy from locals
The Tankoari Asháninka harvesting yuca, their staple food. Slash-and-burn techniques to create clearings for yuca cultivation is becoming the biggest cause of deforestation in the area
Conservationist and forest guide Jaime Peña visits Tankoari village. Peña works with Cool Earth to help local people reduce deforestation
Deforestation near Tinkareni, Peru. Cool Earth is working with locals to make crop cultivation more efficient and reduce slash-and-burn farming
Villagers in Tankoari: the child lying on the ground has suspected malaria but the nearest clinic is half a day’s walk away
Walter Matos Contreras, a coffee technician employed by Cool Earth to work with Asháninka communities, shows villagers how to tell if the coffee is ready to harvest. The aim is to raise the quality of their coffee crop to fetch a better price
Tankoari villagers with a crop of ripe red coffee beans
The coffee beans are passed through a grinder, which strips off the skin
Trainee coffee technician Andy Peña helps the villagers wash the beans
Seeds of raw cacao, which is grown and sold to river traders by Asháninka communities
Forest guide Jaime Peña cuts open a seed that can be used to make candle wax
Achiote, commonly found in the rainforest, is used by the Asháninka to make traditional red face paint. It’s also used as an insect repellent and sunscreen
Cool Earth’s satellite mapping identifies areas cleared for yuca farming. These maps help the Tankoari villagers to plan their land use and reduce deforestation
Cool Earth team members Hannah Peck and Martin Simonneau with a map of the area. The maps help the community to monitor deforestation around Cutivireni
Adelaida Bustamante Sagastizabal, treasurer of the Cutivireni community, who works with Cool Earth to tackle deforestation
