
# Angela Enlists Looking Glass in New Watchmen Episode 4 Promo

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:14:22+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471034-angela-enlists-looking-glass-in-new-watchmen-episode-4-promo)

A new promo for the upcoming Episode 4 of Watchmen has made its way to the web. Next week, a new player will enter the scene as Hong Chau’s Lady Trieu will make her debut. Additionally, Angela looks for help from Looking Glass for her investigations. The synopsis of the next episode of Watchmen reads as follows:
Reclusive trillionaire Lady Trieu (Hong Chau) finally enters the stage with a mysterious offer. With Blake (Jean Smart) getting closer to the truth of her coverup, Angela (Regina King) enlists Looking Glass (Tim Blake Nelson) for help. Meanwhile, The Lord (Jeremy Irons) trains two new servants.
Andrij Parekh directed the episode written by Damon Lindelof & Christal Henry. You can check the new Watchmen Episode 4 promo in the player below.
Set in an alternate history where “superheroes” are treated as outlaws, Watchmen embraces the nostalgia of the original groundbreaking graphic novel while attempting to break new ground of its own. Originally published as a 12-issue miniseries beginning in 1986, Watchmen quickly become one of sequential art’s most acclaimed stories. The original story centers on a murder-mystery before unfolding into a planet-altering conspiracy that ultimately asks where the fine line is drawn between heroes and villains.
Lindelof serves as creator, writer, showrunner, and executive producer on the Watchmen series, with Tom Spezialy, Stephen Williams, and Joseph Iberti also executive producing. In addition to directing the pilot, Nicole Kassell will executive produce. The series comes from Lindelof’s White Rabbit in association with Warner Bros. Television and is based on the DC Comics characters.
The next episode of Watchmen airs November 10.
