
# Andre Gomes suffers awful leg injury leaving Tottenham forward Son Heung-min in tears

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:23:37+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-andre-gomes-suffers-awful-20803525)

Andre Gomes' season looks over after the Portugal midfielder suffered an awful leg injury in Everton's 1-1 draw with Tottenham at Goodison Park.
Son Heung-min was sent off after a 79th minute challenge on the ex-Barcelona midfielder, with the Spurs forward leaving the field in tears after being shown the red card by referee Martin Atkinson.
Son's Spurs teammate Dele Alli admitted that he was "devastated" in the dressing room.
Gomes, a £22million summer signing after a successful loan spell on Merseyside last term, was taken off on a stretcher by medical staff after a number of minutes treatment.
A number of Everton players - including club captain Seamus Coleman, who has previously suffered a broken leg - spoke to and attempted to calm Gomes, who was also given oxygen by medics.
He was immediately taken out of the ground and into an ambulance, which took him to a local hospital. He will undergo surgery on Monday.
Son was initially booked by the referee, for the challenge, which appeared to be little more than an innocuous trip on Gomes as he moved forwards down the Everton left.
But the challenge ensured that Gomes was propelled forward into Serge Aurier, while the Portuguese star's right leg also got caught in the turf.
As such, Atkinson elected to upgrade Son's yellow card to a red - with help via VAR. However, before even being shown the card, Son was already distraught at what had occurred.
Dele Alli, speaking on the incident post-game, said: "Son is devastated and in tears. It’s not his fault.
"Son is one of nicest people you’ve ever met. He can’t even lift his head up, he’s crying so much."
 
A number of players from both sides were also noticeably upset, including Toffees right-back Djibril Sidibe, who was also in tears. Aurier was substituted shortly after by Spurs boss Mauricio Pochettino.
England 'keeper Jordan Pickford and Everton sub Cenk Tosun attempted to comfort Son.
The Premier League released a statement post-game, explaining why Son's initial yellow card was upgraded.
They declared: "The red card for Son was for endangering the safety of a player which happened as a consequence of his initial challenge."
 
Toffees boss Marco Silva said on Gomes: "He went to the hospital. Our medical staff are taking control of everything.
"We need to wait until we hear more information. It is a bad moment of us as a group. We will give all the support of him for as a group we need to continue.
"I didn't see the moment live. I didn't see anything more."
 
Gomes' midfield teammate Fabian Delph added: "We feel just as you can imagine. It’s difficult time for us.
"He is one of our brothers, someone we care about. It is difficult to put into words how we feel.
"As soon as we could get in touch we will send him our best. It’s difficult to see. It’s hard to talk now."
Tosun said: “Everybody is sad inside. Some players cried. Andre was in shock, his eyes were open so big. He was like crying, shouting and screaming.
“I just went over to him and tried to hold him and speak to him; I tried to tell him to stay calm. We could never understand it. He was the one who had got the injury.”
Spurs chief Mauricio Pochettino said: "We feel very sorry. It’s a very bad situation.
"It’s very bad luck how he landed. We can only send our best wishes to him. It’s not about football, it’s important that he is okay. We feel devastated, it was so, so difficult.
 
"Son is devastated. He was very confused. It was difficult to keep him calm. It was not intentional. It was so, so bad luck."
He also revealed that Everton captain Coleman had sought out Son in the dressing room after the match: "I want to thank the captain, Seamus Coleman - he came into the dressing room to console Son.”
Everton were trailing 1-0 when the incident occurred, Dele Alli putting Spurs in front in the second period with a fine individual goal.
Alli survived a handball shout when VAR decided not to award a penalty shortly before Gomes' injury.
Cenk Tosun headed home an injury-time equaliser in the 97th minute as the score ended 1-1.
