
# Best Portable Chargers

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/best-portable-chargers/)

Whether you’re always on the go or have upcoming holiday travel plans that require extra phone battery life, portable chargers are the must-have item in 2019. From snapping photos for social media to taking work calls, battery life is necessary to stay plugged in for all your technology needs. We’ve rounded up the best and top-rated portable chargers from Amazon ahead.   If you’re in the market for a new portable charger but haven’t a clue where to find one, Amazon is chock-full of the best of the best. We searched out the top-rated portable chargers with thousands of delighted customers, right ahead.
Price: $28
The Anker PowerCore 10000 portable charger comes top-rated from Amazon with 4.5 stars and over 12,000 ratings. The portable charger is compact in size and weight and can provide around three and a half iPhone 8 charges. It has an 18-month warranty and comes with Anker’s MultiProtect safety system to keep your devices safe. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Price: $50
If you’re looking for a high-speed portable charger with the ability to charge devices multiple times over, look no further. The Anker PowerCore 20100mAh portable charger can charge an iPhone 8 over six times, a Galaxy S8 fives times and an iPad mini four times. Not to mention, this top-rated portable charger comes highly recommended by over 16,000 Amazon customers and 4.5 stars. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Price: $19
When it comes to portable chargers, it’s all about compactness. If you’re in the market for a small portable charger, the Anker PowerCore 5000 Portable Charger is the one to go with. This top-rated little tough guy can fully charge the iPhone X and Samsung Galaxy S9 once over and the iPhone 8 twice over. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Price: $36
Whether you’re looking to charge smaller devices like your iPhone or larger tablets, the Anker PowerCore 13000 Portable Charger is an excellent option. With over 7,000 ratings and 4.5 stars, this top-rated portable charger packs enough juice to charge your iPhone 8 up to five times, an iPhone X or Samsung Galaxy S9 up to three times, and an iPad Air twice. 

        SHOP NOW
      
Price: $36
The top-rated Portable Charger RAVPower 26800mAh Power Bank is not only compact, it’s also powerful. This power bank can charge most iPhones and Androids over six times and tablets over two times. And with three power ports, you can charge multiple devices at once and share its charging abilities with others! 

        SHOP NOW
      
Price: $33
For outdoor adventurers, the Jackery Portable Charger Giant+ 12000mAh was made for you. This top-rated portable charger has over 11,000 ratings and helps keep explorers connected in case of an emergency. In addition to its charging abilities, this must-try portable charger also features a built-in LED flashlight for added safety. 

        SHOP NOW
      
