
# Glossier Launches Its First Ever Eyeliner Pen

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:18:00+00:00**

Author: **Ariana Yaptangco**

Original: [Elle](https://www.elle.com/beauty/a29687937/glossier-pro-tip-eyeliner-pen-review/?utm_campaign=socialflowTWELM&utm_medium=social-media&utm_source=twitter)

The grind doesn't stop for the dewy masterminds over at Glossier, which launched its first ever eyeliner pen today. As a recent eyeliner convert, I was intrigued when the pink pouch landed on my desk. Eyeliner always scared me: Drawing a perfect, sharp wing is daunting enough, but getting them to match? Terrifying. Eventually I stopped doubting myself (more on that from my therapist later) and took the eyeliner plunge. I've tried a bunch of eyeliner pens since—but how does Glossier's measure up?
Appropriately called Pro Tip (the brand loves a good pun), the pen comes in Glossier's signature millennial pink and was designed to "hug the lashline" for a precise and no-fuss application. Glossier promises up to 12 hours wear, courtesy of the pigmented formula. The pen even includes an internal ball shaker so your lines come out smooth every time.
The first thing I noticed was the very talked-about tip. Made of ultra-fine fibers, it's thin and flexible, but maintains a firmness for a steady hand. Dragging it across my lashline, it creates a smooth line. The tip is also extremely pointy, so getting that sharp upturned wing is a breeze. Overall, the pen is very easy to use and even the most unskilled winged liner wearers can finesse it.
Now, time to nitpick: The formula is buildable, so you won't get immediate color pay off. It took about four or five strokes for me to get an opaque black line. During my commute to work, I noticed that some of the liner transferred to my hooded lid. Luckily, the product is easy to rub off. Despite these setbacks, the formula held up throughout the day and melts off easily with some help from Milky Oil. But perhaps the best part about Pro Tip is the friendly price—a sweet $16.
Glossierliquid eyelinerGlossier glossier.com$16.00 SHOP NOW
