
# Man Utd 'monitor five players' as Scott McTominay named as key to new transfer strategy

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:39:18+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-monitor-five-players-20822669)

Scott McTominay has been identified in a report as the type of player and character that Manchester United need to acquire more of.
United currently lie 10th in the Premier League after a poor start to the season that has seen them win just three of their 11 games, and many fans are already turning their attentions to the January transfer window as they desperately hope their squad can be improved.
The Red Devils have had a particularly poor few years in the transfer market though, with costly additions such as Alexis Sanchez not working out as the club have floundered.
It was hoped that the Chilean would be able to take United to the next level when he arrived from Arsenal in a swap deal with Henrikh Mkhitaryan in January 2018, but the deal turned into a poor one for both parties, and a disastrous one for United.
With that in mind, a report from the Evening Standard says that United's recruitment team and manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer are seeking players with a different type of "X-factor" to that which has been sought from their new recruits in the recent past.
The club retain an interest in Borussia Dortmund's Jadon Sancho and veteran Juventus forward Mario Mandzukic, but these are targets very much in line with their old transfer policy.
Sancho would be a hugely expensive, big-name addition the like of which United have gone for in the past, while Mandzukic would be a short-term stop-gap who would demand high wages.
In the new strategy, it is claimed that United are looking at players who can match the type of energy and leadership displayed by McTominay undr Solskjaer, as well as Darren Fletcher - another Scottish international - before him.
With the club also said to be targeting players at around the age of 23, the five stars mentioned as ideal fits are Everton's Richarlison, the former Liverpool midfielder Emre Can, now of Juventus, Leicester star James Maddison, Red Bull Salzburg's Erling Braut Haaland and Lyon forward Moussa Dembele, with all of them reportedly being watched by the club.
Of course United won't sign all five of them, and certainly not in January, but the fact that they are seemingly targets suggests a shift in mentality at the club as they begin the realise the type of characters they need.
