
# Property: Unearth your very own forever home at The Fort

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Beulah-Anne Sinton**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/property/movein/2019/11/07/news/property-unearth-your-very-own-forever-home-at-the-fort-1759267/)


        Offers Around £495,000
      
Boasting a picture perfect setting emblazoned by foliage, colour and charm, The Fort is truly a one-of-a-kind property. 
You could of course be forgiven for thinking that it was plucked straight out of a beloved childhood book and all that’s missing at this inspirational setting is Peter Rabbit and Jemima Puddle-Duck pottering about. 
But this is no work of fiction, it’s a stunning family home beckoning you to come and start your own chapter from. Mind you, even our most renowned literary figureheads probably couldn’t boast a ring fort - dating back to the 9th century - at their homes. 
However despite its immediate good looks and historical appeal, The Fort has one more string to its bow - it is within easy reach of Killyleagh, Killinchy and Strangford Lough Club and is only 17 miles to Belfast. 
The lucky homeowner here can also enjoy breathtaking views over the surrounding countryside with distant views of the Black Mountain catching the rising sun in the morning to the setting sun come evening to absolute perfection. 
As beautiful as it is, The Fort is equally practical offering four bedrooms and all the comforts imaginable for 21st century living. 
A master class in country style, the reception hall is approached via a half stable door and offers, by bucket load, the type of priceless charm that many properties try to emulate but can rarely achieve. 
This continues through to the drawing room with its hand painted fireplace, stone hearth and doors to your own garden room constructed by Hampton Conservatories. On through to a boot room - a highly practical space following a long day spent outdoors.
The rear hall meanwhile leads to the cloakroom and of course farmhouse kitchen which is sumptuous in design with the added flair of a cosy living space and dining area.
There’s also of course a butler’s pantry and dining room which is currently used as a study.
On through to the bedroom wing where you will find spacious rooms and of course the master with a dressing room and ensuite bathroom featuring a coveted roll top bath and cast iron fireplace. Simply an ideal way to warm up after a long hike in this astounding countryside.
The principal bathroom similarly enjoys a roll top bath and of course a handy shower. 
Outside the space is as functional as it is pretty with a large garage and plenty of parking space.
Enjoy unearthing old brick paths and of course, delightful beds of ornamental shrubs in camellia, rhododendron, cotoneaster, maple, weeping willow and agapanthus. All are under planted with wide sweeps of herbaceous plants and spring flowering bulbs which provide a heady scent and a magnet for song birds. A delightful lily pond is of course a pleasing feature in the front garden.
The medieval ring fort is approached from stone steps leading from the garden to the inner circle enclosed with mature beech, rowan, sycamore and pine trees. There’s surprises at every twist and turn and here you can also find a Victorian greenhouse - and its resident grapevine, treehouse and “spy house” which offers a studio and laundry room.
There’s just so much to discover at The Fort, a setting which truly deserves to star in its own story. Yet every story needs its characters and you are warmly invited to come and play a part in The Fort’s next journey.
For more information contact Tim Martin Estate Agents in Saintfield on 028 9756 8300 today.
