
# Windows 10 SDK Preview Build 19013 available now!

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:03:00+00:00**

Author: **Kevin Larkin**

Original: [Windows Developer Blog](https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2019/11/07/windows-10-sdk-preview-build-19013-available-now/)

Today, we released a new Windows 10 Preview Build of the SDK to be used in conjunction with Windows 10 Insider Preview (Build 19013 or greater). The Preview SDK Build 19013 contains bug fixes and under development changes to the API surface area.
The Preview SDK can be downloaded from developer section on Windows Insider.
For feedback and updates to the known issues, please see the developer forum. For new developer feature requests, head over to our Windows Platform UserVoice.
We have stood up a NuGet feed for the flighted builds of the SDK. You can now test preliminary builds of the Windows 10 WinRT API Pack, as well as a microsoft.windows.sdk.headless.contracts NuGet package.
We use the following feed to flight our NuGet packages.
Microsoft.Windows.SDK.Contracts which can be used with to add the latest Windows Runtime APIs support to your .NET Framework 4.5+ and .NET Core 3.0+ libraries and apps.
The Windows 10 WinRT API Pack enables you to add the latest Windows Runtime APIs support to your .NET Framework 4.5+ and .NET Core 3.0+ libraries and apps.
Microsoft.Windows.SDK.Headless.Contracts provides a subset of the Windows Runtime APIs for console apps excludes the APIs associated with a graphical user interface. This NuGet is used in conjunction with
Windows ML container development. Check out the Getting Started guide for more information.
In this release api-ms-win-net-isolation-l1-1-0.lib has been removed from the Windows SDK. Apps that were linking against api-ms-win-net-isolation-l1-1-0.lib can switch to OneCoreUAP.lib as a replacement.
In this release irprops.lib has been removed from the Windows SDK. Apps that were linking against irprops.lib can switch to bthprops.lib as a drop-in replacement.
In this release we have moved ENUM tagServerSelection from WUAPICommon.H to wupai.h and removed the header. If you would like to use the ENUM tagServerSelection, you will need to include wuapi.h or wuapi.idl.
The following APIs have been added to the platform since the release of Windows 10 SDK, version 1903, build 18362.
