
# QC Events: Nov. 1

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:00:48+00:00**

Author: **Alexa Lawlor**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/life/queen-city/qc-events-nov-1)

#MUSIC
Friday, Nov. 1
The Wild!, W3apons, Excuses Excuses, Dead Levee: 7:30 p.m., The Exchange, 2431 8th Ave.
Trilogy – A Tribute To Journey, Styx & Foreigner: 8 p.m., Casino Regina Show Lounge, 1880 Saskatchewan Dr.
Dave ‘N The Divers’ Post Halloween Party!: 9:30 p.m., Revival Music Room, 2224 Dewdney Ave.
Live Music: 4-7 p.m. Circa27, Hotel Saskatchewan, 2125 Victoria Ave.
Karaoke: 9 p.m., Broadway’s Lounge, 1307 Broadway Ave.
DJ Nights!: 9 p.m., The Capitol, 1843 Hamilton St.
Saturday, Nov. 2
EPIC: 9:30 p.m., Revival Music Room, 2224 Dewdney Ave.
Sunday, Nov. 3
The Jam: 2 p.m., The Club, 2431 8th Ave.
Monday, Nov. 4
Karaoke: 9 p.m., O’Hanlon’s Irish Pub, 1947 Scarth St.
Monday Night Jazz & Blues: 8 p.m., Bushwakker, 2206 Dewdney Ave.
Open Mic: 8 p.m., The Cure, 2323 11th Ave.
Tuesday, Nov. 5
The Young’Uns: 8 p.m., The Exchange, 2431 8th Ave.
Acoustic music: Rebellion, 1901 Dewdney Ave.
Wednesday, Nov. 6
David Francey: 8 p.m. Artesian, 2627 13th Ave.
Wednesday Night Folk: 8 p.m., Bushwakker, 2206 Dewdney Ave.
Downtown Jam: 9 p.m., The Capitol, 1843 Hamilton St.
Thursday, Nov. 7
Ariel Posen: 7:30 p.m., The Exchange, 2431 8th Ave.
Jann Arden: 7:30 p.m., Conexus Arts Centre, 200 Lakeshore Dr.
Live Band Karaoke: 9 p.m., O’Hanlon’s Irish Pub, 1947 Scarth St.
#VISUAL ART
The Permanent Collection: Walking with Saskatchewan
MacKenzie Art Gallery, 3475 Albert St.
Our upcoming permanent collection exhibition explores the diverse ways that artists in Saskatchewan have related to land, and how our objects carry stories and histories. Guest curated by Bruce Hugh Russell, this 10-month long exhibition will examine the history of Saskatchewan art and culture through Indigenous and settler perspectives, featuring a rotating selection of works primarily from the MAG’s permanent collection with select works that both highlight and help fill in the gaps in our collection.
Mitchell Wiebe: VampSites
MacKenzie Art Gallery, 3475 Albert St.
VampSites is the latest exhibition from artist Mitchell Wiebe. Born and raised in Regina, Wiebe combines making and showing, employing a surreal personal lexicon and mythology of colours and textures, motifs and narratives, Wiebe imports the chaos and theatre of his studio into the well-lit, rational architecture of the art gallery. He adopts a distinctive persona who emerges from the same fictive world inhabited by his array of fantastical animalesque characters.
Julie Oh: Selected Videos
Dunlop Central Mediatheque, 2311 12th Ave.
Julie Oh works with photography, video, and installation to examine our understanding of, and relationship with, everyday objects. Central Mediatheque will feature a selection of Oh’s strangely satisfying videos that test the properties of various materials and household goods.
Liz Ikiriko: Flags of Unsung Countries
Dunlop Sherwood Gallery, 2311 12th Ave.
Runs until Nov. 15.
Flags of Unsung Countries is a photographic installation exploring new ceremonies, migration and embodied archives. Photographed in Canada and Nigeria, the work functions as a rite of passage. The exhibition charts the process of understanding a father’s struggles as an African immigrant challenged with mental illness living in the Canadian prairies. The layered images intersect geography and memory in a search for a location of belonging. The work asks the questions: How do we reconcile displacement with a sense of rootedness on adopted homelands? What is required of a home – is it a geography, a structure, a memory? Do we choose to belong or does it choose us? Flags of Unsung Countries uses photography as a language and an archive to map a path of the African diaspora. Using the medium of photography, for this exhibition, Liz Ikiriko documents a personal journey to learn more about her father, returning to meet family in Nigeria and places in Canada where she has lived. Her deeply personal and moving work explores memory, family and identity, and reimagines boundaries between past and present.
#PERFORMANCE
Spring Awakening
Oct. 30 to Nov. 2
University of Regina, Riddell Theatre
#DANCING
Irish Club of Regina Adult Beginner Irish Dance
Wednesdays 6:00 – 7:30 p.m.
1940 McIntyre St.
Powwow
Monday, 6-9 p.m.
New Dance Horizons, 2207 Harvey St.
Adult Dance Lessons (ages 14 and over welcome)
Thursdays Oct. 3 to Nov. 14 (no class Oct. 31), 7:15 p.m. to 8:15 p.m., Beginner Social Dance Lesson (Introduction to Swing/Jive, Two Step & One-Step Waltz, no experience necessary), 8:15 p.m. to 9:15 p.m., Night Club Two Step Lesson (must have some experience in dance)
Regina North East Community Centre, 160 Broad St.
Must pre-register at: lyledonnadance@gmail.com Or call (306-537-9689)
#FOR FAMILIES
The Compassionate Friends – Regina Chapter: A self-help organization offering support, friendship and HOPE for parents who have had a child die at any age from any cause. Meets the 3rd Monday of each month, 7 p.m. Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, (306-761-0974).
Michaels Kids Club: Saturday, 10 a.m.-noon. 2088 Prince of Wales Dr.
Family Favourites films: Enjoy a favourite film for $2.50. Saturday, 11 a.m. Galaxy Cinemas, 420 McCarthy Blvd. N.
Family Studio Sundays: Sunday, 2-4 p.m. MacKenzie Art Gallery, 3475 Albert St.
Chapters Storytime: Sunday, 7 p.m. Chapters Regina, 2625 Gordon Rd.
Science Time for Tots: Interactive workshop aimed at early learners. Tuesday, 10:30 a.m. Saskatchewan Science Centre, 2903 Powerhouse Dr.
Stars and Strollers: Thursday, 1:30 p.m. Cineplex Odeon Southland Mall, 3025 Gordon Rd.
#MUSEUMS
Government House Museum & Heritage Property: 4607 Dewdney Ave. Open daily 9 a.m.-5 p.m.
RCMP Heritage Centre; 5907 Dewdney Ave. Open 11 a.m.-5 p.m. daily.
Regina Firefighters Museum: 1205 Ross Ave. Tours by appointment (306-777-7714).
Regina Floral Conservatory: 1450B 4th Ave. Open 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.  Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, open 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday, open 11:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Friday.
Royal Saskatchewan Museum: 2445 Albert St. Open 9:30 a.m.-5 p.m. daily.
Saskatchewan Military Museum: 1600 Elphinstone St. Open Monday and Thursday, 7-9 p.m., or by appointment (306-347-9349).
Saskatchewan Science Centre; 2903 Powerhouse Dr. Tuesday-Friday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday-Sunday and holidays, noon-6 p.m. Closed Mondays.
Saskatchewan Sports Hall of Fame: 2205 Victoria Ave. Monday-Friday 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m., Saturday noon-5 p.m.
#OTHER HAPPENINGS
Think Christmas Craft Show
Nov. 3, 12 p.m. to 4 p.m., Speers Family Centre, 2333 Cornwall St.
Admission $1 or a Food Bank Donation. All proceeds to the Regina Food Bank.
Fall Tea of the Canadian Bible Society’s  Ladies AuxiliaryNov. 5, 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., Trinity Lutheran Church, 12th Ave. & Ottawa St.
International Whisky Night of Regina
Nov. 1, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m., Conexus Arts Centre, 200 Lakeshore Dr.
Sample some of the world’s finest whiskies in a sophisticated and elegant environment with an array of sumptuous foods that will greatly enhance the evening’s enjoyment.
Meet the whisky distillers, distributors and other whisky experts who will be in attendance. Whisky Night will feature hundreds of whiskies from around the world. This is your chance to taste from a selection of single malt and blended Scotch, Irish, Tennessee, Canadian and craft-distilled whiskies, all assembled in one beautiful setting.
The evening offers an education as distinguished members of the whisky community will be featuring seminars giving one the opportunity to learn first-hand how their brands are made.
You must be 19 or older to attend this event.
Just For Laughs Comedy Night in Canada Hosted by Rick Mercer
Nov. 6, 7:30 p.m., Conexus Arts Centre, 200 Lakeshore Dr.
Just For Laughs announces the return of the Just For Laughs Comedy Tour! The 18th edition, titled Just For Laughs Comedy Night in Canada, will be hosted by Canadian comedy superstar Rick Mercer and will feature a stellar line-up of some of Canada’s brightest talents.
Following the 15th and final season of the incredibly popular Rick Mercer Report, Rick Mercer is hitting the road with some of the best comedians Canada has to offer! Just For Laughs Comedy Night in Canada will see Rick Mercer, along with 2018 Juno Award winner for comedy album of the year Ivan Decker, Gemini award winning comedian Debra DiGiovanni and host of CBC and Sirius XM’s Laugh Out Loud the hilarious Ali Hassan, perform in prestigious theatres from coast-to-coast.
Queen City Cabaret Presents: Anything Goes! A Dance-Filled One-Night Stand!
Nov. 2, 7:30 p.m., Artesian, 2627 13th Ave.
Saturday Scene
Dunlop Art Gallery staff will be in the Sherwood Village Branch gallery on Saturday afternoons to answer your questions, stimulate your mind.
Dunlop Art Gallery, 2311 12th Ave.
RCMP Sergeant Major’s Parade
Weekdays, 12:45 p.m.
RCMP Depot Division, 5600 11th Ave.
Bridge lessons
Learn to play bridge or improve your game. Call 306-586-7044 for more information. Mondays, 6:30 p.m. 1440 Broadway Ave.
Whist for seniors
Tuesdays, 9:30 am at The Living Spirit Centre, 3018 Doan Dr.
For more information call Rod at 306-535-2877.
ChewsDay Challenge
Drop-in gathering of board game enthusiasts.
Tuesday, 6 p.m.-midnight.
Boston Pizza, 545 Albert St. N.
Trivia Night
Sundays, 8:30 p.m.
O’Hanlon’s Irish Pub, 1947 Scarth St.
