
# Greg Leigh set for permanent Aberdeen transfer as Derek McInnes also looks to extend Jon Gallagher stay

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-transfer-news/greg-leigh-set-permanent-aberdeen-20833826)

Derek McInnes has confirmed that Aberdeen will trigger the option to sign Greg Leigh permanently.
The Dons took the left back on-loan from NAC Breda in the summer and inserted a clause that gave them first refusal.
The Englishman has impressed in his four months and McInnes has confirmed that he wants the club to sign him outright and to keep him at Pittodrie beyond the end of this season.
McInnes explained: “Greg, we are in charge of that situation. It suited everybody to do the initial deal on a loan in the summer for different reasons. We were also keen to have the option to keep him. Greg is enjoying it and from my own point of view it is a no-brainer to get him on board.
“We have a recruitment meeting in the next week or so and it will be brought up at that.  The fact we have the option and we can activate it at any time is good but it would be good to get it done.”
Aberdeen have also opened talks with Atlanta United to extend Jon Gallagher’s loan beyond January. McInnes has admitted those discussions have been position and he expects to see the midfielder remain until the end of the season.
“I have had discussions with Atlanta and Jon himself,” McInnes stated. “Everybody is singing from the same hymn sheet. Jon is keen to stay providing Atlanta and Aberdeen are agreeable. We haven’t got round to actually doing it yet but it is something that will more than likely be agreed.”
Aberdeen defender Scott McKenna has also been recalled to the Scotland squad this week for the final Euro 2020 qualifiers with Cyprus and Kazakhstan. 
The last games with Russia and San Marino came too early for him as he was just back from a hamstring injury. McInnes also revealed that he decided to give McKenna extra time to make sure he was over his hamstring issues.
McInnes explained: “We took a bit longer with the hamstring injury this time. I was keen for him to come back for the Hearts and Rangers games.
“He was on the cusp of that and if he had done his rehab in a certain way he would have been back, but we felt the longer term route was more beneficial for Scott and ourselves.
“We made a collective decision to go with a longer rehabilitation so we could break down the scarring from previous injuries so it was less likely he would suffer a recurrence. 
“It didn’t help me because I could have been doing with him for both those games but for the longer term hopefully we can now see Scott getting a run at it.
 
“He can still get injuries elsewhere but we are a lot more confident the hamstring will be a bit more robust and help him deal with the games.”
It has been a rapid rise for McKenna since he was catapulted into the Scotland team. Since then Aberdeen have turned down several big bids and in the last transfer window the player put in a transfer request.
A number of proposals were rejected and he has remained and McInnes believes his consistency of performance certainly can’t be questioned.
McInnes admitted: “I think when he played last season he reached a level but it is like everything when you reach a level then people are asking what else can he do? 
“His level was more than enough and got him into the international team and he is a regular for us and put him on the radar of other teams.
“People can see a good player and other than the injuries and his season being a bit stop-start he has still put in a lot of big performances for us.
“He has still met his standard and the perception was he could give more but what he was giving us was more than enough.
“There is still room for improvement and we speak to Scott regularly and there are one or two things he can do better but I still think last season he put in some brilliant performances for us and he will continue that.”
McInnes also acknowledges McKenna also has room for improvement and more goals, like he netted against Kilmarnock, would help his cause.
The demanding Aberdeen boss confirmed: “He should score more goals and you saw the relief when he stuck the ball in the net as well! It was good he got in the end of it. 
“If a centre half can add more goals to his game then it is a feather in his cap.”
