
# WIW vs INDW | Disciplined bowling helps India level series at 1-1

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:06:14+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/04/wiw-vs-indw-disciplined-bowling-helps-india-level-series-at-1-1?utm_medium=rss)


        A disciplined bowling performance from India’s bowling unit helped them level the three-match ODI series against West Indies at the Sir Viv Richards Stadium in Antigua. Winning the toss, India decided to bat and put up 191 for six from their 50 overs, before restricting the hosts to 138 for nine.
      
After losing both openers cheaply, the Indian women’s fightback from 17 for two was led by Punam Raut’s patient 77, which included four boundaries, and significant contributions from skipper Mithali Raj — who scored a 67-ball 40 — and Harmanpreet Kaur — with 46 off 52 balls. For the hosts, both Aaliyah Alicia Alleyne and Afy Fletcher picked up two wickets, while Shabika Gajnabi and Sheneta Grimmond picked up one each. 
In reply, the Windies Women also lost an early wicket, but together with skipper Stafanie Taylor at No.3, Shemaine Campbelle put on a 68-run partnership. Then leg-spinner Poonam Yadav trapped the skipper in front and triggered a collapse which left the hosts reeling at 105 for seven in the 36th over. The Women in Blue completed the formalities by the 48th over, when Jhulan Goswami (one for 24) had Aaliyah caught by Mithali. The spin trio of Rajeshwari Gaekwad, Deepti Sharma, and Poonam picked up two wickets each, while Jhulan and Shikha Pandey picked up one each. Earlier, opener Natasha McLean was forced to leave the field retired hurt. 
The decider in the series will be played at the same venue on Wednesday.
