
# Stewart Milne gives Derek McInnes ultimate Aberdeen vote of confidence with Sir Alex Ferguson statement

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Burns, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-burns/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/stewart-milne-gives-derek-mcinnes-20785283)

Stewart Milne has given a huge vote of confidence to under-fire Derek McInnes by claiming he is the best manager Aberdeen have had since Sir Alex Ferguson.
The Dons boss, who joined Sir Alex at the opening of their Cormack Park training ground yesterday, has come in for some heavy flak from his own fans in recent months.
But his chairman is in no doubt he will turn things around and his new-look team will be slugging it out for a top-three finish and a Europa League return.
Milne also believes the opening of their Cormack Park facility will help McInnes’ squad to kick on.
He said: “In the world we operate in this is what happens and Derek recognises that.
“What I would say to the fans is to look at the progress we’ve made over the last six and a half years.
“Look at the success Derek has delivered. The club has never experienced that level of success since Fergie left.
“That is the reality of it, all the facts and stats are there.
“Alongside that, every club every season goes through a difficult spell and that’s when everyone needs to rally together.
“We haven’t had the best start to the season but I know Derek’s capabilities and I believe in him.
“We just have to work through it and I’m convinced that come the end of the season we will be up there qualifying for Europe and fighting for the top three places.”
Milne is delighted to see the new £12million centre come to fruition and believes it has been a real team effort.
He added: “I can honestly say we never lost belief but I didn’t think it would take us 20 years to get here.
“There were times it looked pretty bleak. The planning process has been a challenge and this is the third attempt at it. So seeing it all come to fruition is a very proud moment, for the club and for me personally.
“I don’t see it as my legacy because so many people have worked hard on this and have committed big chunks of their lives to deliver this facility.”
The building tycoon knows Aberdeen don’t have the financial muscle to compete with Rangers and Celtic but believes their new Kingsford home can help bridge the gap – although he knows it won’t happen overnight.
He said: “You make an investment for a purpose and want to see payback from it. We very much recognise what Derek has delivered to the club over the last six years.
“The facilities they have been working with have been pretty poor so this gives us the platform to kick on from here.
“Nobody expects miracles overnight but this will be fantastic for attracting players to the club. I always believe that people give more if they’re in the right environment.
“We have high expectations of the youth side of it over the next five years or so. We will never compete with Celtic and Rangers financially but we can compete with them in breeding players and perhaps even be better than them at it.
“It’s all about competing more effectively in Scottish football and hopefully Europe.”
Cormack Park is the first phase and Aberdeen hope to follow it up by putting the funding in place for their new stadium on the same site.
Milne said: “We have to be realistic. It has been a massive challenge to raise the £12m-plus to realise phase one.
“So it’s going to be an even bigger challenge to get the £45m or so for the new stadium, especially in the current economic climate.
“A bit part of it will be getting as much value as we can out of Pittodrie and that will need the property market to be a lot stronger.
“At this point in time I think a realistic target is summer 2023, which sounds a long way off but is just round the corner.”
