
# Former Maccabee Felix White launches first YALA! Records UK tour with exclusive playlist

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:23:23+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NME](https://www.nme.com/news/music/former-maccabee-felix-white-launches-first-yala-records-uk-tour-exclusive-playlist-2564313)


        "We feel it will be the beginning of something special"
      
YALA Records, the label founded by former Maccabees‘ guitarist Felix White, have announced details of their first UK tour. Check out full dates and details below, along with an exclusive playlist.
Following on from their 19 sold-out club nights, curating their own stage at London’s All Points East Festival, and releasing records from The Magic Gang, Willie J Healey, Whenyoung and Egyptian Blue and more, YALA Records will be hitting the road for the first time with rising acts Chinatown Slalom, Jacob Slater and ST. MARTiINS all rotating set positions on each night of the tour.
“We’ve handpicked a three band bill of new acts that we consider to not just be the most exciting in the country, but who also represent a diverse cross-section of music being made at the moment,” said White. “We feel it will be the beginning of something special. Come and join us and celebrate with the best new music around!”
To celebrate, White curated this special playlist for NME of the best music from the YALA clubnights so far.
We also asked Felix a quick few questions about what to expect…
“YALA! at Bermondsey Social Club is where people come to laugh, dance, and watch new music they know stands a fair chance of being irreplaceable in their record collections in the next year, but generally to celebrate for no reason other than it’s Friday. The bands that have played in the past have not only become part of this country’s most loved groups, but always return to hang out (Idles, Yak, Whenyoung, Magic Gang etc) and there are always ‘big name’ DJ’s (Foals, Florence, Wolf Alice, Nadine Shah etc) who generally are well versed in the spirit of community at YALA! It’s normally advisable to have booked the rest of the weekend off. We’re proud to be growing it across the country in the image of our South London beginnings. Glasgow and Manchester have both become little hubs for breaking new music but also a rare space where bands and music lovers all congregate simultaneously.”
