
# Telegraph buyers circle, but real political clout now lies with Facebook

Published at: **2019-11-03T14:00:16+00:00**

Author: **Jane Martinson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/media/commentisfree/2019/nov/03/telegraph-buyers-circle-but-real-political-clout-now-lies-with-facebook)


        The Barclay brothers are offering a trophy of sorts, even though newspapers no longer hold such sway over voters
      
When the Barclay brothers bought the Telegraph group for £665m in 2004, almost 1 million people read the UK’s biggest selling broadsheet paper every day and a Harvard undergraduate called Mark Zuckerberg had recently changed the name of his startup to Facebook.
Scroll forward 15 years and the fortunes of these two companies show how the media industry has been upended. Sales of the Daily Telegraph had fallen to 363,183 by the end of last year while pretax profits slumped from £14m to less than £1m. Just over a week ago it emerged that the billionaire twins have put the Telegraph media group up for sale as part of a review of their business empire. Offers are expected to be in the region of one third of the price the Barclays paid. Except, as ever with the media, the full story is not just about the numbers but about political power and personalities too.
As this news emerged, Facebook was refusing to follow the lead of Twitter, its social media rival, by banning political advertising in the run up to elections on both sides of the Atlantic. Zuckerberg sniffed at the idea that this decision could be about money, saying that “ads from politicians” would contribute less than 0.5% of the company’s revenue next year. Given Facebook’s $66bn (£51bn) earnings in the year to September, this inconsequential amount could add up to about $330m next year – or roughly the cost of buying the entire Telegraph Media Group.
At first glance, the tale of this once venerable newspaper is a straightforward one of ageing newspaper barons attempting to sell off a fading business for financial and personal reasons. Having just turned 85, twins, Frederick and David, now have “different priorities” for the future of the business. The former is said to be keener to sell than David, whose sons, Aidan and Howard, take an active role in TMG.
This family dynamic partly explains why they would consider selling just a year into a corporate turnaround led by a chief executive, Nick Hugh, appointed in 2017. After years of radical cost cutting – with six daily editors in 12 years – the company hired an extra 39 journalists last year and announced a new digital investment strategy based on subscriptions. Profits were partly dented by a £2.7m reorganisation cost, due to earlier redundancies and a platform development write-off.
Operating profits have fallen as sales staff have been told to offer ever lower deals to keep readers on board – I know this as someone who tried to end her own cut-price subscription package and was given two extensions.
Owners tend to attempt to massage their profits upwards in readiness for a sale, which suggests that this is not necessarily a fire sale by a family in need. Hence the fact that advisers have not yet been appointed officially; people close to the company suggest that any sale could take up to 24 months.
There is a more urgent financial issue concerning the firm’s online retailer Shop Direct, which needs £150m to fund claims for payment protection insurance compensation, but the Ritz hotel in London, expected to be sold for more than 10 times the £75m the Barclays paid for it, would be a far more straightforward way to finance this and any other expenses.
None of this financial engineering detracts from the fact that the Telegraph is essentially the last remaining paper of note up for sale in the UK. DMGT, the owners of the Mail, have long been buyers not sellers, (indeed, the group is said to be circling the Telegraph); Rupert Murdoch, having sold his US TV business, appears happy to keep newspapers in his family business; the Guardian’s trust-style structure makes a sale almost impossible. Other important newspapers have either more recently changed hands (the Financial Times and the Independent) or merged (the Mirror and the Express).
This position as the last big British newspaper brand to be bought was underlined when Steve Bannon was reported to be bringing together a consortium to buy the Telegraph, which he described as “one of the great untapped properties”.
So, if there were a cash-rich oligarch waiting to pay big for a newspaper in a politically turbulent country, this might not be the worst time for the Barclays to let it be known that they are open to offers.
In this scenario, trade buyers from the Mail owners to former editor David Montgomery and former chief executive Murdoch MacLennan are unlikely to be able to offer enough. The Amazon billionaire and Washington Post owner Jeff Bezos would be able to pay a “trophy” price, but his interest last year appears to have evaporated.
Despite its dying readers, falling revenues and sometimes ethically dubious content (think of China Watch, its supplements provided by the state-run China Daily), the Telegraph could still be seen as a trophy of sorts. The paper and its owners have a well documented and cosy relationship with the current prime minister – who was until very recently a highly paid columnist. Both have also long backed Brexit – the brothers held a party at the Ritz in honour of Nigel Farage to celebrate the 2016 EU referendum result.
As ever with the Barclays, much of this has to be speculation. The only public-facing conversations the twins have with the outside world tend to be via lawyers. This reached new levels of farce when Sir David was ordered to pay €6,000 (£5,170) in moral damages to a French playwright who wrote an obscure play satirising the lives of the Barclays, as well as €5,000 to three theatre companies and €35,000 in legal costs. To think that the Murdochs have let Succession, a show that appears to be based on their travails, be broadcast to the world for two series.
But at least the reclusive Barclays do not offer lengthy gushing videos on the virtues of press freedom, unlike Sheryl Sandberg, who explained Facebook’s refusal to ban political ads, regardless of whether they are true or not, because “we believe in free expression, we believe in political speech, and ads can be an important part of that”.
“At times of social tension there has often been an urge to pull back on free expression,” she said, entirely ignoring the fact that the urge is to pull back on misleading and devious information packaged as political advertising.
Facebook’s decision to carry on running political ads – which have been so tainted by scandals – would be foolhardy for any company worried about the weight of public opinion. But what if the opinion of the handful of politicians who want to continue paying for promotion is worth it, not for the money, but for the power they wield when discussing legislation. Legislation about regulation of technology platforms, let’s say, or even insisting on full moderation of content.
We have grown used to newspapers claiming to have no sway over politicians but we are moving fast into an age when far bigger and more powerful companies are allowing even more underhand methods to influence public opinion.
The Telegraph may have become the Daily Boris, and the television broadcasters may tie themselves in knots over the next six weeks trying to organise political debates but, on Facebook, political parties can send messages straight to each voter’s newsfeed, without anyone shouting about bias or asking them tricky questions. And that power is worth more than its weight in gold.
