
# Westlife announce Scottish stadium tour for 2020 but Glasgow and Edinburgh miss out

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:49:55+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Russell, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jennifer-russell/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/entertainment/celebrity/westlife-announce-scottish-stadium-tour-20786938)

Westlife will be touring the UK next year with two dates in Scotland - but big cities Glasgow and Edinburgh have been missed out.
The spectacular summer tour includes two Scottish dates at Falkirk Stadium and Inverness Caledonian Stadium next June.
Fans will be treated to the global pop kings performing all of their greatest hits including 'Swear It Again', ‘Flying Without Wings’ and ‘You Raise Me Up’ as well as sensational up-tempo new songs from their forthcoming new album ‘Spectrum’.
The tour, which covers some of the biggest outdoor venues in the UK, will conclude with Westlife’s  first-ever Wembley Stadium show on Saturday, August 22.
 
The Stadiums in the Summer announcement follows the phenomenal success of  Westlife's  remarkable comeback and comes as the band prepares to release their brand new album ‘Spectrum’ on 15 November.
The band said: "The reaction to our comeback tour was beyond anything any of us ever imagined so we’re going to do it all over again but this time in some of the largest outdoor venues in the UK.
"The shows are going to be incredible and will include all our greatest hits. We can’t wait to perform in Falkirk and Inverness."
Tickets go on sale at 9am Friday November 8, with the Falkirk gig on Saturday, June 27 and Inverness on Sunday, June 28.
