
# How Lewis Hamilton won his sixth F1 title – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:45:14+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/gallery/2019/nov/04/how-lewis-hamilton-won-his-f1-sixth-title-in-pictures)


        A look back at some of the best images from the season as Lewis Hamilton became the second most successful driver in Formula One history
      
Australia: after a poor start, Hamilton finished second behind his teammate Valtteri Bottas but vowed to learn from mistakes in the season opener.
Photograph: Pixathlon/Shutterstock
Bahrain: Hamilton reversed the finishing order from Melbourne, in a second successive 1-2 for the Mercedes team.
Photograph: Srđan Suki/EPA
China: in the 1,000th Formula One grand prix, Hamilton cruised to his sixth victory in China with another 1-2 for Mercedes.
Photograph: Steve Etherington/Sutton Images/Shutterstock
Azerbaijan: in a fourth successive Mercedes 1-2 – the most successful start to a season in F1 history – Hamilton finished second.
Photograph: Clive Mason/Getty Images
Spain: Hamilton triumphed in Barcelona, with teammate Bottas finishing second, after taking the lead on turn one and staying in front.
Photograph: Juan Medina/Reuters
Monaco: Hamilton held Max Verstappen at bay to secure the Monte Carlo win he so dearly wanted to honour his late friend Niki Lauda.
Photograph: Valdrin Xhemaj/EPA
Canada: Ferrari finished first but a five-second penalty put Sebastian Vettel second and handed the race to Hamilton.
Photograph: Paul Chiasson/AP
France: Hamilton won from pole by 18 seconds ahead of Bottas, extending his lead over his Mercedes teammate to 36 points in the title race.
Photograph: Dan Istitene/Getty Images
Austria: Hamilton finished fifth in a race won by Max Verstappen, though the result was unconfirmed for three hours while stewards considered the Red Bull drivers pass on Ferrari’s Charles Leclerc.
Photograph: Leonhard Föger/Reuters
Great Britain: Hamilton won his sixth British grand prix, to lead Bottas by 39 points in the championship race and storm 100 clear of Vettel.
Photograph: Valdrin Xhemaj/EPA
Germany: Verstappen won a thrilling race in treacherous conditions, with Hamilton finishing ninth after hitting a wall.
Photograph: Christof Stache/AFP/Getty Images
Hungary: Hamilton caught Verstappen on lap 67 of 70 to win, in yet another masterclass from the British driver and Mercedes.
Photograph: Bernadett Szabó/Reuters
Belgium: Leclerc claimed his first F1 victory, with Hamilton finishing second and Verstappen crashing out on the first lap.
Photograph: Zheng Huansong/Xinhua/Barcroft Media
Italy: Hamilton and Vettel clashed on the opening lap, but the Briton extended his championship lead with victory at Monza.
Photograph: Pixathlon/Shutterstock
Singapore: Vettel won in a Ferrari 1-2 while Hamilton, who started second on the grid, finished fourth.
Photograph: Pixathlon/Shutterstock
Russia: Hamilton took advantage of a Ferrari meltdown in Sochi, to lead his teammate Bottas by 73 points.
Photograph: Mark Thompson/Getty Images
Japan: Bottas stormed to victory as Mercedes took the F1 constructors’ title, with Hamilton third to lead his teammate by 64 points.
Photograph: Pixathlon/Shutterstock
Mexico: victory went to Hamilton but, with Bottas finishing third, the Briton was forced to wait until the next round in Texas to claim the title.
Photograph: Francisco Guasco/EPA
USA: Hamilton secured his sixth world title, and his third in succession, after finishing second behind Bottas in Austin.
Photograph: Larry W Smith/EPA
