
# Jeremy Clarkson stranded on tropical island with James May and Richard Hammond

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:21:19+00:00**

Author: **Molly Pike, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/molly-pike/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/jeremy-clarkson-stranded-tropical-island-20833058)

Jeremy Clarkson says he's currently stranded on a tropical island with his Grand Tour co-stars.
The former Top Gear presenter, 59, kept his fans updated on Twitter as he revealed that he, James May and Richard Hammond had ended up on the wrong island - 500 miles away from their film crew.
They had flown on a cargo plane with all their equipment but it broke, leaving them "marooned".
Clarkson tweeted: "Only May, Hammond and I could do this: end up 500 miles away from the entire crew, on the wrong island.
"We elected to fly on the cargo plane with the kit and it broke.
"Now we're marooned on a tropical island with nothing but a car and wine."
He also posted a picture of May looking fed up and surrounded by beers.
Clarkson added: "May is going through the rations too fast. We may not survive."
He then posted a video of his co-hosts sitting around drinking as they made a joke intro to a new episode.
Hammond said: "Hello and welcome to a Grand Tour special."
"Which is coming to you from Jeremy Clarkson's iPhone," May added.
Clarkson said off-camera: "Yes I'm really sorry the battery's gone, battery's gone!"
But fans weren't convinced they were in a life or death situation, as many noticed that there was a food truck behind them.
One said: "Some tropical island, has its own taco truck."
"The catering truck behind is a bit if a giveaway," another posted.
