
# Jordan stabbing: Two tourists 'critical' and three others injured in knife attack

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:54:56+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/jordan-stabbing-two-tourists-critical-20823140)

Two tourists are believed to be in a critical condition after a knife attack in Jordan that left three others injured.
A man has been arrested following the incident which took place in Jerash, which is famed for its Roman ruins, on Wednesday.
According to a security sources three of the victims are said to be Spanish woman.
A local guide and a security guard are thought to be the other casualities.
Marco Junipero Serra tweeted about the attack saying he witnessed it.
He tweeted: "Just witnessed a knife attacker at Jerash. He may have killed 2-3 people and stick 4 more. I’m in shock.
 
"I watched the officials/locals chase him and one got stabbed pretty bad. Couldn’t tell if a park employee or tour guide but was uniformed."
A video on social media after the attack shows a bleeding woman wearing a blue t-shirt and white baseball hat lying on the floor.
Another image shows a panic-stricken female in a blood-stained T-shirt running from the scene.
A man wearing a checked shirt can be seen covered in blood as he's treated at the scene.
Blood can be seen streaming down his left side and onto his trainers and the ground below.
Chilling images show blood splattered everywhere as witnesses come to the aid of the victims.
Jordan is considered by tour operators as one of the safest tourist destinations in the Middle East. 
It has witnessed a surge in European tourists in the last two years.
The Spanish government has yet to comment.
