
# IND v BAN | Ready to grab the ball and express myself again, says Shardul Thakur

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:40:04+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/01/ind-v-ban-ready-to-grab-the-ball-and-express-myself-again-says-shardul-thakur?utm_medium=rss)


        After nearly a year out of action due to injury, Shardul Thakur is ready to grab the ball and express himself again for India when they play Bangladesh on Sunday. Shardul became India’s 294th Test cricketer last year against West Indies but was forced off with injury 1.4 overs into his spell.
      
His much-awaited debut with the red ball, in October last year, made headlines for all the wrong reasons, as he was forced off the field due to a groin strain during the second Test against the West Indies at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium in Hyderabad. But the 28-year-old has worked his way back through the ranks and is once again raring to go in international cricket in the upcoming three-match T20I series against Bangladesh.
"It's a great feeling to be back in the Indian side almost after a year. I can’t express the feeling. I was away from the Indian side for quite some time. I am really happy that I am back where I belong. I am completely fit now. I am ready to grab the ball and express myself. I just want to go and contribute as much as possible for the team," Thakur told Timesofindia.com in an exclusive interview.
“I can fit myself to any format. I am fully fit. I have made it to the T20I squad and will look forward to ODIs and Tests as well. I have a decent experience with the red ball. I want to take my cricketing graph upwards. I want to keep myself fit and play for my country as much as possible. That’s my ultimate motto,” he said.
Shardul made his Mumbai debut under Rohit Sharma’s captaincy and he returns to the Indian setup for the three T20Is with his fellow Mumbaikar captaining the side in Virat Kohli’s absence. 
“I have played under him (Rohit) in the Nidahas Trophy as well. I have played a number of times with him. I have watched him play as a kid and looked up to him. It is really great fun to play under him. We have got a good rapport. I have seen him since my childhood. I am hoping for a good series,” the Mumbaikar said.
Over the season, the Mumbai pacer worked under former Indian captain MS Dhoni in the IPL season with CSK, and he shared some of the tips the great man had passed onto him. 
“He (Dhoni) has taught me how to immediately learn and judge a batsman. Watching a batsman closely, his stance and anticipating what shot he is going to play, these are the things I have learnt from him. Whenever he has shared his immense knowledge with me or any bowler, we have taken it very seriously. We always try to focus on those tips of his,” Thakur added.
