
# 2020 Toyota Yaris GR-4 teased

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:24:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Collie**

Original: [CarAdvise](https://www.caradvice.com.au/805913/toyota-yaris-gr-4-teased/)

- shares
Toyota is readying a rally-inspired hot hatch based on the 2020 Yaris – and the first prototype will be unveiled in Australia this month.
Based on the picture we have here, it's clear the GR-4 will be something fairly serious. The rear arches are seriously swollen, suggesting the performance Yaris will have a wider rear track than the standard car.
Given it's wrapped in the same camouflage as the GR Supra prototype we drove, it appears this will be a proper Toyota Gazoo Racing performance car.
The GR-4 name also offers a few hints as to what the high-performance Yaris has to offer. Previously, the GT4 and GT-Four badges have been used on rally-inspired Toyota road cars with all-wheel drive in the past, so there's a chance the Yaris will have the same.
Under the skin, the new Yaris (above) rides on a variation of the Toyota New Global Architecture (TNGA) chassis dubbed GA-B. It's lighter and stiffer than before, and the TNGA family has proven Toyota still knows how to make a car handle, so signs are good for the hot Yaris.
Toyota has also dipped its toe into the hot hatch waters recently, developing the limited-run Yaris GRMN (below) for Europe. Just 400 were built, powered by a 1.8-litre supercharged engine – and our reviews suggest it's a pretty handy thing.
The Yaris GR-4 will be unveiled at Rally Australia in Coffs Harbour, New South Wales. Stay tuned for more.
13
nextprevious2020 Toyota Yaris GR-4 teased
