
# UFC 244 video: Dana White rants about Corey Anderson’s ‘crybaby bulls—t’

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Anton Tabuena**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/4/20947385/ufc-244-video-dana-white-rants-about-corey-andersons-crybaby-bulls-t)

Corey Anderson and the UFC seems to still have a bit of a strained relationship. This past week, the light heavyweight contender revealed that the promotion told him he didn’t move the needle enough to get big fights. Saturday night at UFC 244, Anderson completely derailed the hype-train behind Johnny Walker, knocking him out swiftly in the first round.
After the big win over the man many deemed as the next challenger to Jon Jones, Anderson demanded a title shot. He also said that if the UFC doesn’t want to offer him what he feels he has rightfully earned, they should just release him from his contract.
Dana White didn’t seem too happy to hear that.
“So he came in here very angry this week. All these conspiracy theories, we hate him, we this, that and everything else, all this crybaby bulls—t,” White said. “We’re trying to get him beat. We can’t get you beat. You can either win or you can’t. We like Walker better or whatever the stuff he was saying.
“No, some guys move faster than others, you’re telling us what you deserve. Show us what you deserve. Tonight you showed us. Got it. Message received. Now we know.”
While White acknowledged the big win over Walker, he didn’t guarantee a title shot for him next.
“Not one person clapped for him at the weigh-ins,” White said. “Walker got a pretty big pop when he came out. I’ll bet people will notice him next time, won’t they? You came out and you showed everybody. You did something. Now we’ll move on.
“I’m not saying you’re getting a title shot next or whatever. (Dominick) Reyes won too, impressively,” he said. “We’ll figure out what’s next for you.
“And when your contract is up, if you still don’t want to be here, you can do whatever you want to do. In the mean time, take the fights that we offer you. Pretty simple.”
With the KO over Walker, Anderson has now won four fights in a row. He’s had 14 fights with the UFC already dating back to 2014, where he has compiled a 10-4 record with the promotion and 13-4 overall.

        View all 63 stories
      
