
# Wolff: 2019 title victory has had its ups and downs

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Joseph Tyrrell**

Original: [GPblog.com](https://www.gpblog.com/en/news/49582/wolff-2019-title-victory-has-had-its-ups-and-downs.html)


        Another season, another Drivers' and Constructors' Championship double for Mercedes, all might seem plain sailing from the outside, but Toto Wolff has insisted even a dominant season like 2019 has had its highs and lows.
      
Lewis Hamilton wrapped up World Championship number six for himself at the United States Grand Prix, P2 enough to seal the title. Mercedes have won 14 of the 19 races this season including an eighth race winning streak at the start of the season. 
It looks from the outside that it has been relatively easy for the Silver Arrows as a sixth double in as many years was comfortably completed. However, Toto Wolff has insisted this was far from the case.
"Every championship seems the most difficult, but this year certainly had ups and downs," Wolff said as quoted by Motorsport.

        "We got off to a great start, but for a long time, we didn't have the best package on Saturday. We managed to make the least mistakes on Sunday and I think that was the best.
      

        "The key to winning the championship. 
        The fact that we were back in shape in Austin, with Valtteri who won this race and Lewis who secured the championship with a very strong pace, made this race the highlight of the year for me."
      
