
# Barcode visitors say what they really think of Cineworld

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:23:13+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/family-kids/barcode-visitors-say-what-really-3504525)

Visitors of Plymouth's new Cineworld have been leaving a mixture of reviews.
The new cinema, complete with 12 screens including IMAX and 4DX screens, opened its doors to the public on Tuesday, October 22 as part of Drake Circus' £53 million leisure complex The Barcode.
The multiplex doesn’t have a box office, movie posters or projectionists – but boasts the world’s most advanced cinema technology, a coffee shop and ice cream bar, and a ticketing deal that allows you to see movies as many times as you want for a fixed monthly price.
As cinemagoers have flocked to try out the new screens, the complex has a score of 2.5 stars on Trip Advisor at present, with three negative, three positive, and one average review.
Some have complained that they were expecting 'so much more' from the new cinema experience.
One wrote: "I was told that IMAX was the bomb but was truly awful. £4.20 for popcorn in a tiny bag like what you get your large chips from burger king in.
"Seats are so cramped, you can't get out to go toilet, we walked in and the seats were dirty and messy from the previous show, left over popcorn, drinks, rubbish and the seat was sticky.
"Sound was average, screen was below average. Vue is better in my opinion. "The only positive I can give is the layout (hallways) which was better than Vue. "To add to this our tickets sold don't print from the machine but I was charged so instead of saying, okay in you go, they flapped for half hour and we missed the beginning. "Staff are new so I have no problems with them at all but the overall experience was somewhat underwhelming."
Another reviewer didn't have a positive experience, claiming the seats were 'uncomfortable'.
They wrote: "The staff are friendly and the sound and picture was quite good. However, the seats were so uncomfortable I still have backache the next day.
"The seats are best described as miniature armchairs that recline by leaning back. My seat was recliining when I didn't want it to, and the legroom was appalling.
"I've had more legroom in economy on a plane. It was also so hot in the screen that I was starting to feel a bit queasy."
A third reviewer added: "I'll start with two good things. The seats are bloody comfy and everybody serves with a smile. However, there it stops.
"The screen quality is quite poor, and throughour the film there was a light marring the top of the screen. The room was also Hot! Like sweaty hot. I was dead uncomfortable the whole time.
"Also, the toilets were a disgrace. Not cleaned once in the time I was there. I went to the toilet before the film, and there were blood stains on the toilet floor (drops all over the floor) in one of the cubicles.
"I went again at the end of the film, and the drops were still there. The cubicles were all filthy and there was no toilet roll in any of them."
However, on Facebook, the cinema currently has a rating of 4.1 out of 5, with the majority seemingly impressed by the new venue.
One user, who recommends visiting, said: Great place to watch a movie. The ambiance is top notch. Great sound and picture quality. The 4DX and IMAX are incredible. Awesome location. In the heart of the city. Very convenient for shoppers, and people that can only take public transportation. 10 out of 10 from me."
Another film fan raved: "Excellent service on the self serve check outs, staff were very helpful with assisting me.
"As with ticket masters, they were also helpful with directing to the right screen. Like the seating area whilst waiting. Very clean inside. Love the seats that recline back at no extra cost. Very much enjoyed my first experience of the new cinema."
A third said: "I was impressed with how much of a smooth operation my first visit was. Very friendly staff, easy to buy tickets (you can buy on the screens with your card as you come in, or pay by cash upstairs.) The seats are comfortable and recline, and the toilets are spotlessly clean.
"Only paid £3 as it was the opening week, but I'd definitely go again at full price. Really enjoyed my day out."
The news comes after Plymouth Live reported that the cinema was forced to cancel screenings on the opening day, less than an hour before films were due to begin.
Disgruntled cinema-goers spoke of their disappointment at the 'shambles' of having their bookings cancelled.
At the time, a spokesperson for Cineworld said: “Unfortunately due to delivery issues, a small number of films were unavailable on our premises this morning, but thankfully this has now been resolved.
"We apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused and thank all customers for their co-operation."
