
# Distraught buyer reveals the EIGHTY flaws in his new-build £210,000 Persimmon house

Published at: **2019-11-06T03:59:31+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/distraught-buyer-reveals-eighty-flaws-20821356)

A distraught home owner says his new build home has EIGHTY defects.
The £210,000 four-bed build has a raft of issues, says Darren Harris, who lives in Sutton Coldfield.
Darren claims the neighbours have been laughing at the building.
Now architect and TV presenter George Clarke has spoken out about Mr Harris's problem property.
"This is shocking," admitted Clarke on social media, with scores of Twitter followers replying.
"Utterly shocking," agreed another, while a fellow Twitter user wrote: "Imagine the stuff you can’t see!"
"Oh my life! Did the bricklayer take part in Take Your Child To Work?" asked another.
"So the moral of the story is.... Do not buy off plan!" chipped in a fellow Twitter user.
"Poor guy," wrote another, and another said: "Absolute madness."
Rather than being the perfect home, it has given Mr Harris problems from "day one".
Persimmon, who built the house, say they are aware of the concerns and "are working to reach a satisfactory conclusion".
 "In June, I got the keys to my house and we drove down to the property," he said.
"The neighbours came over and asked me if I had seen the brickwork on the back of the house.
"They said to me 'We have been having a bit of a laugh and a giggle'."
When Mr Harris took a look, he was confronted with wavy brickwork that wasn't straight and looked unsightly.
The 53-year-old civil engineer was shocked.
"I know all about brickwork. I'm a builder myself, and have run my own company for 36 years," he said.
But the walls were just the start of his problems.
As he entered his finished house for the first time, he tried to put the key in the door.
But the door wouldn't budge.
"We couldn't get in," he said.  "I thought there must be a problem and went back to the site office.
"A Persimmon agent came back with me and in the end, he had to shoulder-barge the door to get it open."
It turned out the door frame had been fitted badly. But the problems carried on.
Mr Harris said: "Everything is appallingly built - the workmanship is just shoddy.
"The problems are unbelieveable."
Mr Harris bought the house at Martello Park, Pembroke before it was built.
Together with his wife, who is an area manager for Greggs, he has a number of buy-to-let properties in Pembrokeshire.
He had planned to rent out the house once it had been completed.
"As well as the poor brickwork, we have found paving slabs have been laid straight onto rubble and earth, without any cement," he said.
"The ground isn't level in the garden, the drain covers are sticking out of the ground, and the drains are positioned in the wrong place so the water runs straight past them.
 "While I was there, I saw a worker laying some slabs and I could see he was doing it all wrong. I'm a bricklayer by trade, so it was clear to me there were no footings under the paving.
 "Even the guttering is all wrong, and not just on my property. None of the guttering reaches the end of the houses and water cascades down the sides when it rains.
 "While I was mowing the lawn, I kicked my foot on the raised drain cover and actually broke my foot, causing me to take three weeks off work.
 "It's caused my wife and I no end of worry and stress. She has been in tears. If my marriage wasn't so strong this could have finished us."
While Persimmon agreed to rectify some of the issues, the problems persisted and Mr Harris took to fixing the problems himself.
A spokesman for Persimmon Homes West Wales said: "We are aware of Mr Harris’ concerns and we are working to reach a satisfactory conclusion.
"We have many happy customers across South Wales and we take customer service seriously."
