
# Volume One of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross’ Watchmen Score is Now Streaming

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:08:21+00:00**

Author: **Jake Abbate**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/tv/471208-volume-one-of-trent-reznor-and-atticus-ross-watchmen-score-is-now-streaming)

The latest episode of Watchmen featured more references to the original graphic novel than either of the previous chapters did. But aside from fan service, the episode also signaled the arrival of the show’s inaugural soundtrack volume. The first batch of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross’ compositions for the series are now available to stream on all major platforms.
Viewers are sure to recognize some of the tracks almost instantly. “OBJECTS IN MIRROR (ARE CLOSER THAN THEY APPEAR)” was memorably heard during Looking Glass’ interrogation of a Seventh Kavalry member inside the Pod. However, a few of the song titles are as enigmatic the series itself. It’s anyone’s guess as to what “ORPHANS OF KRYPTON” refers to. The first volume also includes a few dialogue selections from the first three episodes. “GARRYOWEN” is just a recording of the Seventh Kavalry’s address to the Tulsa police, which drew influence from Rorschach’s journal.
During a recent interview with Rolling Stone, Reznor explained how he and Ross crafted Watchmen’s music. Apparently, the producers “wanted something that set an aggressive, sort of sleazy tone” for the series, and it sounds like they definitely got their wish. Reznor and Ross will release two more volumes of their Watchmen score during the first season’s run. It seems like they’re planning to release these volumes after every three-episode grouping. Using this logic, the next batch of songs will arrive shortly after “This Extraordinary Being” airs on November 24.
Additionally, Reznor and Ross have shared the cover art for Volume One’s vinyl release. The packaging makes it look like a reissue of an album titled The Book of Rorschach by the fictional band Sons of Pale Horse. Watchmen’s companion website, Peteypedia, offers some background info on the group. Sons of Pale Horse were a ‘90s space rock outfit named after the death metal band that died when Ozymandias’ squid “attacked” New York in 1985. In the Watchmen universe, this event has become known as the Dimensional Incursion Event (or D.I.E.).
You can view the tracklisting and artwork for Volume One below. What do you think of Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross’ Watchmen music so far? Let us know in the comment section!
01. HOW THE WEST WAS REALLY WON02. ORPHANS OF KRYPTON03. GARRYOWEN04. NUN WITH A MOTHERF*&*ING GUN05. OBJECTS IN MIRROR (ARE CLOSER THAN THEY APPEAR)06. KATTLE BATTLE07. AMERICAN PROMO STORY08. I’LL WAIT09. TRIGGER WARNING10. THE BRICK11. NEVER SURRENDER12. MULLER TIME13. OWL HUNTS RAT14. ABSENT FRIENDS AND OLD GHOSTS15. WATCH OVER THIS BOY

        Recommended Reading: Watchmen
      

        
          We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.
        
      
