
# Ruthless Real Show Turkish Giants No Mercy

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:05:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/uefa-champions-league-report-real-madrid-v-galatasaray-06-november-2019/666915)


        UEFA Champions League
      
Result: Real Madrid 6-0 Galatasaray
Date: 06 November 2019
Venue: Santiago Bernabeu
Real Madrid registered an emphatic 6-0 triumph over Galatasaray in the UEFA Champions League Group A on Wednesday, with 18-year-old Rodrygo netting a hat-trick.
Luka Modric started from the bench, with Federico Valverde preferred alongside Carlos Casemiro in the middle of the park.
Real hit the front in just three minutes when Rodrygo brought down a far post-delivery to curl into the bottom corner on his Champions League home debut.
Rodrygo netted a second in the space of four minutes as he nodded home Marcelo’s pin-point cross from the left side of the area.
Los Blancos had a third on 14 minutes after a cheeky penalty conversion from Sergio Ramos after the Video Assistant Referee flagged Steven Nzonzi for fouling Toni Kroos.
Marcelo made way for Ferland Mendy after the Brazilian subsequently encountered a knock four minutes to the break.
Karim Benzema joined in on the act right before the break when he directed Rodrygo’s low cross into the centre of the area beyond Fernando Muslera.

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
Eden Hazard, who up to now endured a quiet evening, went close to snatching a fifth a minute to the break but Muslera smothered the danger following a low strike.
Control remained strongly with Los Blancos, who had their passing patterns and build-up patterns well within their reach. Modric made an entry on the 60th minute spell in place of Casemiro, as Zinedine Zidane looked to see out the match.
Real withheld the visitors close to the end, and sealed a fifth nine minutes from time after Benzema tapped home Dani Carvajal’s cross to complete his brace.
Rodrygo had the final say when he started and finished off a move involving Benzema with a simple slot past Muslera in the final minute of the match to complete his hat-trick,
Los Blancos as such put their Champions League campaign back on track after a slow start, whist the Turks aspirations end.
