
# Sonny Bill Williams set for Toronto Wolfpack transfer on multi-million pound deal

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:46:44+00:00**

Author: **Mirror.co.uk**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/sonny-bill-williams-set-toronto-20815131)

Toronto Wolfpack are close to securing the signing of superstar Sonny Bill Williams on a multi-million pound two-year contract.
The 34-year-old dual code international, who has just finished his Rugby World Cup campaign with the All Blacks, is expected to finalise the deal within days.
Williams is understood to have agreed terms with the ambitious Canadian club, who have just been promoted to Super League.
Reports suggest it could be worth as much as £5million over two seasons, which could include taking a stake in the Wolfpack.
The club is expected to unveil the former Canterbury Bulldogs and Sydney Roosters star at a press conference in London next week.
Wolfpack coach Brian McDermott travelled to Japan to watch Williams play in New Zealand’s semi-final loss to England, and table the offer that will reportedly make him the highest-paid player in rugby league or union history.
The club has openly expressed a desire to bring a “David Beckham-type figure” to Toronto, and now have their man in Williams.
The forward - who has boxed professionally - was also chased by French rugby union clubs, but is thought to be excited at the prospect of helping rugby league grow in North America.
The Wolfpack have already caused a stir in British rugby league after climbing the professional ladder in three seasons through expensively-assembled squads.
But the capture of Williams will propel the Canadian club onto a different level as they look to make an impact in Super League next year.
They will kick off their campaign with a double header at Headingley that sees them face Castleford Tigers before Leeds host Hull FC on Sunday February 2.
