
# 1,004 words: Beto O’Rourke 2020 dropout statement one of longest on record

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:39:02+00:00**

Author: **Emily Larsen**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/1-004-words-beto-orourke-2020-dropout-statement-one-of-longest-on-record)

Beto O'Rourke's talkative campaign style came through in his written announcement that he is ending his presidential campaign. An email to supporters explaining his decision to drop out on Friday was a lengthy 1,004 words, including the subject line.
"Though it is difficult to accept, it is clear to me now that this campaign does not have the means to move forward successfully," O'Rourke wrote. "My service to the country will not be as a candidate or as the nominee. Acknowledging this now is in the best interests of those in the campaign; it is in the best interests of this party as we seek to unify around a nominee; and it is in the best interests of the country."
The former Texas congressman's email is the longest written message from 2020 Democratic presidential candidates who have dropped out so far.
The campaign of California Rep. Eric Swalwell, the first 2020 hopeful to drop out, distributed a 306-word exit statement in a press release. An email from his team with the subject line "A profound experience" was 308 words. New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand wrote a 542-email to supporters when she dropped out, and an email from former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper announcing the end of his bid was 352 words long.
Email drop out announcements from Washington Gov. Jay Inslee and Massachusetts Rep. Seth Moulton were longer than others but still significantly shorter than O'Rourke's. Inslee's “The progress we've made together” email clocked in at 687 words, and Moulton's “So proud of this team” was 765 words.
