
# Trump declares himself resident of Florida in move that could help him pay less tax, says report

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:31:31+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Buncombe**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/trump-declares-himself-resident-florida-003131724.html)

The Queens-born Donald Trump - who has always prided himself as the ultimate New Yorker - is said to be declaring himself a Floridian and possibly doing so for tax reasons.
A report said papers filed with the Palm Beach county circuit court, revealed Mr Trump was switching his primary residence from Manhattan to Palm Beach.
While Mr Trump long operated out of his Trump Tower penthouse as both a reality television star and a political candidate, since becoming president he has spent much more time at as Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida.
The New York Times said both Mr Trump and first lady Melania Trump, filed a “declaration of domicile” saying Mar-a-Lago will now be their permanent residence.
“If I maintain another place or places of abode in some other state or states, I hereby declare that my above-described residence and abode in the state of Florida constitutes my predominant and principal home, and I intend to continue it permanently as such,” said the filing.
“I formerly resided at 721 Fifth Avenue.”
It said he listed under “other places of abode”, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, the address for the White House, and his private golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey.
Since becoming president, he has spent a reported 99 days at Mar-a-Lago, and just 20 at Trump Tower.
The White House did not immediately respond to enquiries on Thursday evening.
The New York Times said the move may be being done for tax reasons.
It said Florida, which does not have a state income tax or inheritance tax, “has long been a place for the wealthy to escape the higher taxes of the northeast”.
It said the president had also been angered by efforts of officials in New York state to obtain copies of his tax returns.

        Trump Organisation blocks Mar-a-Lago gala hosted by Islamophobic group
      

        Woman found guilty of lying to trespass at Trump's Mar-a-Lago club
      

        Missing underwear delays trial of Chinese Mar-a-Lago ‘trespasser’
      

        Woman who broke into Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort on trial
      
