
# Max Allegri tipped for Man Utd job by ex-England boss Fabio Capello

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:37:24+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/max-allegri-tipped-man-utd-20809840)

Former Juventus boss Massimiliano Allegri should have his eye on replacing Ole Gunnar Solskjaer at Manchester United , according to Fabio Capello.
Solskjaer might still be in a job at Old Trafford, but that hasn't stopped ex-England manager Capello from claiming that his fellow Italian would be perfect for the Old Trafford hotseat should it become available.
The Norwegian saw his side slip to a 1-0 defeat at Bournemouth on Saturday to leave them down in 10th place in the Premier League table having won just three of their 11 league matches this season.
Club legend Solskjaer still retains the support of the United board and large swathes of the club's fanbase, many of whom are sympathetic to the rebuilding job that the former forward is having to oversee.
Allegri has been out of work since leaving Juventus at the end of last season, when he picked up a fifth successive Serie A title.
He also took Juve to the Champions League finals of 2015 and 2017, losing to Barcelona and Real Madrid respectively.
Speaking to Italian radio station Radio Anch'io Sport (in quotes carried by Football Italia ), Capello - who managed England between 2008 and 2012 - put himself in Allegri's shoes when he was asked where he sees the 52-year-old going next.
“He’d be a good fit at Bayern Munich, although I don’t know how welcome Italians are in Germany after (Carlo) Ancelotti," said Capello.
“England’s exciting, there’s the possibility of working well and the Premier League is a championship that enriches you.
“If I was Allegri, I’d go to Manchester.”
United don't have any immediate plans to sack Solskjaer, although it remains to be seen whether those plans will change should their form significantly worsen.
