
# Hyundai Xcent gets discounts worth up to Rs 1.25 lakh

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Nishmanya Bahadur**

Original: [Autocar India](https://www.autocarindia.com/car-news/hyundai-xcent-gets-discounts-worth-up-to-rs-125-lakh-414773)

These benefits and discounts on the compact sedan are being offered by Hyundai dealers in order to push sales.
Hyundai launched the Xcent compact sedan in India back in 2014. Since its launch, it has garnered the reputation and image of being a taxi cab. This is reflected in the fact that around 50 percent of Xcent sales are currently in the fleet segment. Hyundai is now offering discounts and benefits worth up to Rs 1.25 lakh on the compact sedan in a bid to boost sales.
The Korean carmaker is offering the S and SX petrol variants of the Xcent at a special price of Rs 5.39 lakh, down from the standard Rs 6.47 lakh price for the S variant. The SX petrol variant has also dropped from the standard Rs 7.09 lakh to a special price tag of Rs 5.99 lakh. Hyundai is offering Rs 15,000 in benefits over and above the special price of the S and SX petrol variants, making the total discount Rs 1.25 lakh on these specific variants. For the rest of the Xcent range, Hyundai is providing benefits and discounts to the tune of Rs 1,05,000.
Mechanically, the Xcent currently comes fitted with both petrol and diesel engine options, albeit in BS4 guise. These include a 1.2-litre, four-cylinder petrol engine which produces 83hp and 114Nm of torque, and a 1.2-litre, three-cylinder diesel engine which makes 75hp and 190Nm of torque. In terms of gearbox options, the petrol engine gets an option of a 5-speed manual and a 4-speed torque convertor automatic gearbox, while the diesel motor only gets the former.
As per our previous report, the next-gen Hyundai Xcent is slated to be launched in India in early 2020. The carmaker is also expected to ditch the Xcent moniker and give the compact sedan a new name in the hope of getting rid of the taxicab image the current Xcent had gotten over the years. Hyundai has already begun work on the next-gen Xcent, as it has already been spied testing in India.

        
          Disclaimer: Discounts vary from city to city. Please check with your local dealer for exact discounts, which may not match figures quoted here.
        
      

        Also see:
      

        
          Next-gen Hyundai Xcent spied for the first time
        
      
Rs 6.05 lakh * On Road Price (New Delhi)

        FIND OUT MORE
      
