
# Shipping magnate named ‘InLifeShero of the Year’ at 10th Asia CEO Awards

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:00:51+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Manila Bulletin Business](https://business.mb.com.ph/2019/11/05/shipping-magnate-named-inlifeshero-of-the-year-at-10th-asia-ceo-awards/)

 
 
Ms. Doris Magsaysay Ho, group president and chief executive officer of the Magsaysay Group, one of the country’s largest business conglomerates, was named winner of the First Asia CEO-InLifeShero of the Year Award.
She received the award during formal ceremonies at the 10th Asia CEO Awards held at the Marriot Hotel Manila, recently.
The InLifeShero of the Year is a new category in the Asia CEO Awards and is given to a Filipino woman leader who has achieved recognizable success, overseeing organizations in the Philippines that have advanced the nation’s economic and, or social standing in the eyes of the world.
Ms. Magsaysay Ho was formerly conferred the Global Filipino Executive of the Year Award at the ASIA CEO Awards 2012. She has also been recognized for her outstanding contributions in the global shipping industry multiple times. She was also the recipient of an Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year for Social Responsibility in 2004.
Ms. Magsaysay Ho leads a conglomerate that has businesses in various industries such as: Manpower deployment and human resources, hospitality and tourism, shipping and logistics, healthcare, education and training, oil and gas and specialized engineering trade.
“It is such as honor to receive this reward especially from a big company such as Insular Life, (which is) run by women who I admire so much,” said Magsaysay Ho moments after she received the award.
She added: “I believe that more than success, we should look for purpose and strive for meaning in whatever we do. This is what I have been trying to do; I dedicate this recognition to the men and women who make up our organization.”
“We are honored to recognize Doris Magsaysay Ho as our very first InLifeShero awardee. The success of her organization as well as her personal endeavors, her striving for excellence for herself and others deserve praise and recognition,” said Insular Life President and CEO Mona Lisa B. Dela Cruz.
