
# Starting XI: Levante v Barca

Published at: **2019-11-02T16:09:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/laliga/laliga-starting-xi-levante-v-fc-barcelona-02-november-2019/666580)

FC Barcelona will be out to cement top spot in LaLiga with a trip to Estadio Ciudad de Valencia to face Levante on Saturday afternoon. - Here's how they line up.

        LaLiga
      
Teams: Levante v FC Barcelona
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Estadio Ciudad de Valencia
The match is scheduled to get underway at 17h00.
After being inactive last weekend, the Catalan giants were in fine form on Tuesday evening as they thumped Real Valladolid 5-1 at the Camp Nou.
Ernesto Valverde does not have any major absentees to deal with, as Samuel Umtiti remains the only casualty for the Catalan giants this afternoon.
Levante, meanwhile, got back to winning ways on Wednesday night after defeating Real Sociedad at the Reale Arena to end a run of back-to-back losses.
The Catalan giants did complete the double over Levante last season after calming a 1-0 win on the road, while the reverse fixture ended 5-0 at the Camp Nou.
Messi will also be looking to add to his impressive record against Levante, having registered 21 goals and 17 assists across all competitions since 2004.

        Here's how they line up:
      
Levante: Aitor; Miramón, Vezo, Postigo, Clerc, Radoja, Campaña, Melero, Bardhi, Morales, Mayoral.
FC Barcelona: Ter Stegen; S. Roberto, Piqué, Lenglet, Semedo; De Jong, Arthur, S. Vidal; Messi, Suárez, Griezmann.
