
# Ex-boxing champion Scott Harrison says he's 'over the moon' after fiancee gives birth to their baby girl

Published at: **2019-11-05T20:05:25+00:00**

Author: **Keith McLeod, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/keith-mcleod/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/ex-boxing-champion-scott-harrison-20819220)

Boxing legend Scott Harrison and fiancee Stacey say they are “over the moon” after welcoming a new addition to the family.
Little Myley Grace checked in at 8lbs 14 oz when she arrived on Monday at Glasgow Royal Infirmary’s maternity unit.
Beaming Scott, 42, told the Record: “Stacey and the wee one are doing great. They’re just back from hospital around half-an-hour ago.
“We couldn’t be happier. That’s the family complete.”
 
And he revealed that Stacey was in hospital for less than day.
He said: “Stacey was in hospital for just about 18 hours.
“The staff were fantastic and we just want to say thanks so much for all they did.
“We love them to bits, we really do.
And he revealed that he and Stacey, 36, chose the new arrival’s name from a shortlist.
He said: “There were two or three names. We finally settled on Myley Grace.
“We thought it would be Grace, then Myley, then Lacey, or Macey but we loved Myley Grace and we’re delighted with it.
“She really is a wee cracker.”
 
Stacey said: “I’m so happy. I’m just glad to be home, to be back in the house.
“The hospital and the staff there were superb.”
The family endured heartbreak a year ago after they revealed in the Daily Record they were expecting another child but then suffered a devastating miscarriage.
They spoke exclusively to the Daily Record after the boxer was released from jail last year.
He served three years after being convicted of assault in Spain.

        In pictures: Scott Harrison's career View gallery
      
Scott, who won two world titles and staged 12 defences before he was stripped of his belt, has vowed to get back to the top of the sport.
His featherweight WBO title fights against the Mexican world champion Manuel Medina in 2003 became the stuff of legend in the sport.
 
Scott has two children from a previous relationship, Scott Jnr, 17 and Maria, 13.
And Myley Grace also joins Jack, 10, and Brandon, six.
Scott shared some stunning social media pictures of the new arrival.
He said on Twitter: “My wee princess born today 8lb 14oz.
“We love you - welcome to the world!!xx”
He added: “Cheers for all the messages everyone, Stacey and wee Myley Grace are doing well and back in the house. Thanks and God Bless you all for taking the time to send a message, we appreciate it !!”
