
# Best Google Pixel 3a and 3a XL Cases

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Somrata Sarkar**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/buying-advice/mobile-phone/best-google-pixel-3a-xl-cases-3696434/)

Google launched a more affordable version of its flagship Pixel 3 at Google I/O on 7 May.
The mid-range phones cost £399/US$399 for the 3a and £469/US$479 for the 3a XL at launch, much cheaper than the regular models which have an RRP of £739/$799 and £869/$899, respectively. See our full comparison here, as well as our reviews of the 3a and 3a XL.
However, now the Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL have arrived, there are some good discounts around. Check out our round-up here. 
Despite the lower price, you still get the rear camera from the premium range, which is rare for mid-range phones. You also get a 5.8in screen on the 3a and 6in screen on the 3a XL, which you'll want to keep safe from damage.
(Read more about the phones' technical specifications here.)
While we haven't tried all these cases before, we have been impressed with these brands in the past and so can recommend their products with confidence. 
We've seen this clear case for the Galaxy S10 before – though what sets it apart from other clear cases is that it's made of tempered glass. This means you get the feel of a glass back with the certainty of keeping your phone safe.
With a 9H hardness rating, the case should keep your Pixel 3a at bay from scratches and dings. Plus the soft TPU bumper frame protects the edge of the phone.
It's available for the Pixel 3a for £13.99/US$18.99 and the for the Pixel 3a XL for £13.99/US$18.99.
We often recommend Olixar cases. The brand offers reliable protection in a variety of styles and at affordable prices.
The gel case is another clear option for those who want the original beauty of their Pixel 3a or 3a XL to shine through, while keeping it safe from everyday wear.
It's available for both the Pixel 3a (£4.99/US$6.99) and the 3a XL (£6.99/US$8.99).
A wallet case provides the perfect balance between style and functionality, and for some it's hard to picture life without one. 
Olixar's affordable faux leather option protects your Pixel 3a from knocks and drops while also offering two slots for credit cards. The front flap also fold into a stand for horizontal viewing.
You also get a two-year manufacturer warranty. Olixar's walllet case is available for the Pixel 3a (£9.99/US$12.99) and 3a XL (for the same price).
Here's one more option from Olixar that's slightly more rugged than the other options. It's a TPU and polycarbonate case with a texturized back for added grip. Plus, raised bezels keep the screen safe from scuffs and scratches.
You get a two-year warranty on this case too. It's available for the Pixel 3a for £9.99/US$12.99.
