
# Which players have had the longest gap between spells at a club?

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:00:20+00:00**

Author: **Guardian sport**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/06/which-players-have-had-the-longest-gap-between-spells-at-a-club)

Plus: Lopsided and unusual stadiums (3); league leaders getting hammered; and the player arrested for an on-field heist
“Port Vale signed Will Atkinson on loan in 2007,” asked Rob Fielding. “This season he has returned on a short-term contract. The gap between his spells is 11 years and 11 months. Is this the longest gap between two spells at one club?”
No, is the short answer. For the longer answer, dozens of you got in touch with suggestions of returning heroes who were gone for a dozen years or more. This, it should be pointed out, is by no means a comprehensive list:
13 years: Diego Maradona (Boca Juniors, left 1982; rejoined 1995), Vincent Kompany (Anderlecht, 2006-2019), Robin van Persie (Feyenoord, 2004-2018), Roger Milla (Tonnerre Yaounde, 1977-1990), Wayne Rooney (Everton, 2004-2017), Michael Dawson (Nottingham Forest, 2005-2018).
14 years: Paolo Di Canio (Lazio, 1990-2004), Stanley Matthews (Stoke 1947-1961).
15 years: Andy Goram (Oldham, 1987-2002), Dunga (Internacional 1984-1999), Alvaro Recoba (Danubio 1995-2010), Billy Meridith (Manchester City, 1906-1921), Gabriel Heinze (Newell’s Old Boys, 1997-2012), Steve Marlet (Red Star, 1996-2011), Tomas Rosicky (Sparta Prague, 2001-2016).
16 years: Marcus Hahnemann (Seattle Sounders, 1996-2012).
17 years: David Watson (Notts County, 1967-1984), Jonathan Greening (York City, 1998-2015), Mario Frick (Balzers, 1994-2011), Roque Santa Cruz (Club Olimpia, 1999-2016).
20 years: Rivaldo (Mogi Mirim, 1994-2014), Jari Litmanen (HJK Helsinki, 1991-2011), Dirk Kuyt (Quick Boys, 1998-2018).
21 years: Faryd Mondragon (Deportivo Cali, 1991-2012), Henrik Larsson (Hogaborg, 1992-2013).
“There may even be one greater than that,” writes Chris Page. “Former record holder of the world’s oldest player, Robert Carmona of Uruguay, is listed as having spells at La Luz separated between 1984-85 and 2009, which would be a gap of around 24 years.”

        With thanks to Matt DuGay, Chris Page, Jon Millard, Elliot Rawstrone, Pablo Miguez, Stuart Basson, David Carr, Chris Clarke, Tom Aldous, Alex Metcalfe, Henri du Périer and Ben Aspinall
      

        Last week we took a long, hard look at some or the world’s weirdest and wackiest stadiums and, as ever, you’ve been in touch with a few more suggestions:
      
“As with all of the best questions in the Knowledge, Fort William FC can usually be relied upon to provide an answer of sorts,” writes Kieran McHugh. “In regards to the lopsided stadium question Fort William’s Claggan Park has a claim. There is a small stand on the length of pitch that must house about 100 hardy souls maximum. The other three sides of the pitch have no stands as such. However, some way from the pitch there is a ‘ghost’ stand that formed part of the old Claggan Park stadium which is now unused. This ‘ghost’ stand could easily accommodate more than the current stand but, well, it’s a bit run down. Unlike the Fort themselves of course who are enjoying something of a renaissance despite being rooted to the bottom of the Highland League at present.”
“Two noteworthy additions from the Welsh Premier League,” writes Aled Jones. “Cefn Druids’ The Rock looks quite impressive in daylight and reminds me a lot of the stadium in Braga. Also, Tom Thronicker asked if there’s another stadium located closer to an airport. One of the more obvious ones will be Airbus UK’s The Airfield in Broughton. Some big Airbuses on sight behind one of the goals on TV!”
And a couple of twists on the theme: “The Estadio Principe Felipe in Cáceres, Spain, has only three floodlight towers - one corner of the pitch doesn’t have one. Are there other stadiums with similarly irregular floodlight arrangements?” wonders John Upton.
And here’s Derek Andrews: “If you ever ask about stadiums that have closed and been redeveloped into something quite different, I would like to nominate the Walter Ulbricht Stadion in (the then) East Berlin, which I travelled to in 1965 to see army team ASK Vorwaerts play Manchester United in the (then) European Cup. In 1992 the stadium was demolished to build a new arena for the 2000 Summer Olympics. As Berlin failed in the bidding process, the area remained abandoned. In 2006 construction of the new headquarters of the German Federal Intelligence Agency began. It opened in 2017.”
“This weekend Dundee United, who were top of the Scottish Championship, were beaten 4-0 by Queen of the South,” wrote Anthony Gee:, a while back. “What is the biggest defeat for a league leader?”
“On the morning of 3 October 1992, Norwich City were top of the inaugural Premier League table on 23 points with 10 games played and preparing for their visit to second-placed Blackburn Rovers who were on 21,” writes Derek McHugh. “The Canaries got thumped 7-1 and went on to finish in third place with a goal difference of -4.”
“I’m sure that I remember hearing about a player that was arrested after stealing something on the pitch during a match,” wrote Simon Keast in 2010. “Did it actually happen and, if so, who was the player in question?”
This was a genuine theft that took place in a league match between two Uruguayan sides back in 1991. The crook was a Penarol defender by the name of Goncalves and his victim was one Julio Dely Valdés, who played up front for Nacional at the time. On the day of the match in question Dely Valdés had a Mr T-esque host of gold chains hanging from his neck.
Soon enough he went up for a Nacional corner. Shirts were tugged and body parts grabbed at as players jostled for position. The delivery was cleared and Goncalves flashed a satisfied smile. Well he might – in amongst the confusion the defender had pulled one of Dely Valdés’s chains clean off his neck, before stuffing it swiftly into his sock. The incident had been picked up by TV cameras.
Dely Valdés was accompanied by police as he confronted Goncalves outside his changing room at full-time. Goncalves was promptly arrested, offering up a rather pathetic “I don’t know what I was thinking” by way of defence. He was freed from police custody, however, after he returned the chain.

        
          • For more from the font of nerdvana, click this thing here.
        
      
“After seeing a quite forlorn looking human-sized raven at Bromley vs Stockport last night, I wondered what the lowest ranked team with a paid mascot is,” writes Tom Taylor. “Any ideas?”
