
# Arsene Wenger told he is too old to be a manager amid Bayern Munich interest

Published at: **2019-11-07T08:41:59+00:00**

Author: **Aaron Flanagan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/aaron-flanagan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-told-old-manager-20830274)

Arsene Wenger has been told that he is too old to still be managing at the very top level of football.
The former Arsenal boss is the favourite to take over as manager of Bayern Munich following the sacking of Niko Kovac earlier this week.
But former Chelsea and France defender Marcel Desailly thinks that Wenger's day has already passed.
Wenger has been out of management since he called time on his 19-year reign at Arsenal in the summer of 2018.
He insists that he is ready and raring to go with a new management role in football and has publicly stated his interest in taking over at Bayern.
Desailly, however, remains unconvinced.
"No, he should not be in the dugout. It's not for him any more," Desailly told BeIN Sports.
"He has great possibilities to restructure, to build up the philosophy of the club, towards the first team and the academy.
"But as a frontline, we don't see him anymore. He's 70 years old."
Bayern appear set to offer Wenger a deal to take over until the end of the season, with talks expected to take place this week in a bid to finalise a deal.
The German champions had wanted Ajax boss Erik ten Hag and PSG chief Thomas Tuchel as options, but both are unwilling to leave their jobs at the present moment.
Wenger speaks German fluently and already knows Bayern winger Serge Gnabry, who he managed during his time at Arsenal.
The Frenchman has already turned down job offers since leaving Arsenal, including a role as a technical director with FIFA.
