
# Jho Low will be guaranteed a fair trial, says Malaysia’s AG

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:35:35+00:00**

Author: **theedgemarkets.com**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/jho-low-will-be-guaranteed-fair-trial-says-malaysias-ag)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): Malaysia’s pursuit of fugitive Low Taek Jho (more well known as Jho Low) to face criminal charges at homewill not be affected by the settlement he reached with the US Department of Justice (DoJ), Attorney General Tan Sri Tommy Thomas said.
Speaking to The Edge by phone from overseas as he is travelling, Thomas also noted that the settlement covered only the 30 asset forfeiture actions the DoJ had taken against Jho Low.
“Other criminal charges for money laundering and corrupt practices filed against Jho Low by the DoJ are not part of the settlement, “ he said.
Thomas added: “As far as Malaysia is concerned, all our own charges against him will continue, and he should return home to face them instead of hiding and making all sorts of claims that he will not get a fair trial.”
He said everyone can see that the two ongoing trials of former Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak are being done in a fair and transparent manner before an independent judiciary.
“Jho Low will be guaranteed that,” he said.
The AG also said Malaysia looks forward to the return of US$700 million that will be seized by the DoJ which has said the money was stolen from 1MDB and will be returned to the people of the country.
To recap, police filed criminal charges against Jho Low and his father Tan Sri Larry Low Hock Peng in August last yearfor offences under the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act 2001 over money allegedly stolen from 1MDB.
In that case, Jho Low was slapped with eight counts of money laundering.
In the first, second and third charges, Jho Low allegedly received US$261,449,960 from unlawful activities into his BSI Bank Limited account.
In the fourth to eighth charges, he allegedly transferred US$41,100,073.22 and US$140,636,225.10 into the account of World View Limited, Caymans Island, in Caledonian Bank Limited, Caymans Island.
Low is also facing charges brought by the US Department of Justice over funds misappropriated from 1MDB and paying bribes to various Malaysian and Abu Dhabi officials.
Then, he was slapped with a further five charges under Section 4(1)(a) of the same Act for receiving US$1.03 billion from 1MDB through his company Good Star Ltd.
He was also jointly charged with Eric Tan Kim Loong, 40, under the same Act, for two offences involving US$1.26 million.
