
# Farage Vows to Hurt Labour ‘in the Most Extraordinary Way’

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:03:44+00:00**

Author: **Victoria Friedman**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2019/11/06/farage-vows-hurt-labour-most-extraordinary-way/)

Mr Farage made the comments during an appearance on Good Morning Britain on Monday. He said in response to claims that the Brexit Party would take votes from the Brexit-backing Conservatives: “The UKIP vote took more votes from Labour than it did from the Conservatives. [David] Cameron wouldn’t have even got a majority without UKIP.
“We are going to hurt the Labour Party in the most extraordinary way. We’ll do it in South Wales, we’ll do it in the Midlands, we’ll do it in the North of England.
“Those Labour voters have been completely betrayed by the Labour Party. They are my number one target. I got those votes in 2015, I’ll do it again.”
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn abandoned some five million Labour Leavers in the heartlands when he backed a second referendum in July, with a study pointing to more Labour Leavers turning to the Brexit Party than the Tories.
Mr Farage said in comments reported by The Telegraph that his party has the best chance to pick up those disaffected left-wing voters. He said: “Labour seats offer us our best opportunity.”
“When you go out to these Labour constituencies that voted leave and are now represented by Remain MPs there is more anger there about the lack of representation than in any other part of the country,” he added.
