
# Grimsby Town insider's guide on what Plymouth Argyle can expect from Michael Jolley's Mariners

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/grimsby-town-insiders-guide-what-3491473)

Grimsby Town will arrive at Home Park to play Plymouth Argyle on Saturday in 18th position in league Two.
However, the Mariners have played one game fewer than most teams in the division, including the 10th-placed Pilgrims, who are four points above them.
Grimsby also had an impressive 3-1 victory over Exeter City at St James park on their last visit to Devon on September 28.
So Michael Jolley and his players will be looking to pick up maximum points again, this time at Home Park.
Here, Grimsby Live's Liam Wood gives us an insider's guide into the Mariners.
Much like several sides across the division, it has been an inconsistent start in terms of results. Before this little run of three defeats and a draw, though, there have been encouraging signs.
Grimsby are four points better off than at the same stage last season – and summer recruitment means they are in a much better place to improve on last season's 17th place finish.
Absolutely. Victories at Morecambe and Walsall set the tone in terms of how Grimsby have played on the road this season, with Exeter then being a stand-out result.
If they can manage to chalk-up a second win in Devon this season, then their away form is not to be ignored.
Grimsby can be quite flexible in their approach, which is perhaps the best way to be in this division – with each team presenting a different type of challenge.
Plenty has been made about the impact of James Hanson, and the aerial threat that he possesses, but they also have capable ball players in the shape of Jake Hessenthaler, Ethan Robson, Jordan Cook and others.
I would expect them to look to try and play on the counter.
I think a top-half finish would be seen as a good achievement by the majority – but with the chasing pack separated by just a few points, you would imagine several clubs will be eyeing-up this season as an opportunity to push for the top-seven.
That will come down to who is the most consistent, but as Grimsby proved at Exeter, they are capable of beating anyone when they hit their straps.
James McKeown, the club’s long-serving goalkeeper and now captain, is as good as anyone in League Two, while Hessenthaler will look orchestrate things from the engine room.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
Manchester United graduate Luke Hendrie is expected to be missing for a few weeks after suffering a hamstring strain against Cambridge United last time out.
Max Wright (thigh) has been out for the last few games, but could be nearing a return having trained with the group this week. They are the only two, as things stand.
My guess would be 5-3-2/3-5-2 with the following from right to left: McKeown; Hewitt, Waterfall, Öhman, Pollock, Gibson; Whitehouse, Hessenthaler, Robson; Green, Hanson.
