
# You Can Now Buy The Jabra Elite 65t Earbuds For A Rock-Bottom Price

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:18:02+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/jabra-elite-65t-earbuds-sale+discount+deals)

Are you in the market for a new pair of headphones? Well, you'll be hard-pressed to find a better pair, at a better price, than the Jabra Elite 65t true wireless earbuds.
Especially right now considering they can be picked up far cheaper than usual.
The Jabra Elite 65t retail for around $169.99, although they do often go on sale. For example, in July and August they did drop to as low as $139.99. At the time, that appeared to be the lowest price you could buy them for to date.
Advertisement
That was then. Right now you can pick up the Jabra Elite 65t for just $109.99. At this rock-bottom price, it's more of a matter of why aren't you buying them than why you should.
You can currently pick up the Jabra Elite 65t at this low price from multiple retailers, including Amazon and Best Buy.
Put simply, the Jabra Elite 65t are an extremely popular pair of wireless earbuds.
Advertisement
First off, these are true wireless earbuds so not is there no cable connecting them to your smartphone, but also no cable connecting the two sides to each other.
While this type of design offers the ultimate in freedom and movement, it does have its compromises. One of the most important ones is battery life.
Compared to the competition, the Jabra Elite 65t fare well in this sense. The battery inside the buds offers up to five hours without needing to be charged.
Advertisement
When a charge is needed, the carry case also doubles as a charging case, upping the battery life to 15 hours.
Of course, design and battery life don't matter much if the sound quality is not there. But that's not an issue with the Jabra Elite 65t earbuds. These are great-sounding earphones to begin with and allow you to tweak the sound further through the compatible smartphone app.
If you want a solid, reliable and good-sounding pair of true wireless earbuds, at this price the Jabra Elite 65t earbuds are very hard to beat.
Advertisement

        Jabra Elite 65t - $109 - Amazon
      

        Jabra Elite 65t - $109 - Best Buy
      
