
# The Xiaomi Redmi Note 8 Pro is already being updated to MIUI 11

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:57:50+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/the-xiaomi-redmi-note-8-pro-is-already-being-updated-to-miui-11/)

The Xiaomi Redmi Note 8 Pro is already being updated to MIUI 115 (100%) 1 vote
A few weeks ago, the Xiaomi Redmi Note 8 Pro has been officially released. Since then, one of the most criticisms of the users has been the choice of the processor, as this device arrives with a MediaTek and not with a Qualcomm. It has already been shown that this is not a problem in the performance section, but it can be when we talk about updates. It’s just what we came to talk about today, about the updates of the Note 8 Pro. But not from Android, but from its personalization layer: MIUI.
The Redmi Note 8 Pro is currently sold with Android 9 Pie and MIUI 10 out of the box. It is one of the most recent Xiaomi devices and also one of the first to receive updates. Users of this phone may be in luck, because MIUI 11 is already rolling out.
Indeed, the MIUI 11 update has been released in China for the Redmi Note 8 Pro. This device has only been on the market for a few weeks. And is already receiving its ration of the new customization layer. Of course, it is the Chinese version of MIUI 11 and not the global one. In addition, it is based on Android 9 Pie and not Android 10, so it is half good news.
If you live in any country other than China and want to receive MIUI 11 on your Note 8 Pro you will have to wait. The latest news tells us that MIUI 11 Global and stable could reach the western market at the end of December. Yes, there are still about two months to wait for this date.
