
# Trump CTO Addresses AI, Facial Recognition, Immigration, Tech Infrastructure, and More

Published at: **2019-11-05T02:30:00+00:00**

Author: **msmash**

Original: [politics.slashdot.org](https://politics.slashdot.org/story/19/11/05/1911207/trump-cto-addresses-ai-facial-recognition-immigration-tech-infrastructure-and-more?utm_source=rss1.0mainlinkanon&utm_medium=feed)

Tekla Perry writes: Michael Kratsios, the fourth U.S. Chief Technology Officer, explains administration policies at the Fall Conference of the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence -- and takes some tough questions from the audience. An exchange between Kratsios and Stanford's Eileen Donahoe hit on current hot topics, starting with the tension between the U.S. and China: Donahoe: "You talk a lot about unique U.S. ecosystem. In which aspect of AI is the U.S. dominant, and where is China challenging us in dominance?Kratsios: "They are challenging us on machine vision. They have more data to work with, given that they have surveillance data."Donahoe: "To what extent would you say the quantity of data collected and available will be a determining factor in AI dominance?"Kratsios: "It makes a big difference in the short term. But we do research on how we get over these data humps. There is a future where you don't need as much data, a lot of federal grants are going to [research in] how you can train models using less data."Donahoe turned the conversation to a different tension -- that between innovation and values.Donahoe: "A lot of conversation yesterday was about the tension between innovation and values, and how do you hold those things together and lead in both realms."Kratsios: "We recognized that the U.S. hadn't signed on to principles around developing AI. In May, we signed [the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Principles on Artificial Intelligence], coming together with other Western democracies to say that these are values that we hold dear.[Meanwhile,] we have adversaries around the world using AI to surveil people, to suppress human rights. That is why American leadership is so critical: We want to come out with the next great product. And we want our values to underpin the use cases."A member of the audience pushed further:"Maintaining U.S. leadership in AI might have costs in terms of individuals and society. What costs should individuals and society bear to maintain leadership?" Kratsios: "I don't view the world that way. Our companies big and small do not hesitate to talk about the values that underpin their technology. [That is] markedly different from the way our adversaries think. The alternatives are so dire [that we] need to push efforts to bake the values that we hold dear into this technology."
