
# Shirley Ballas stunning London home - inside plush house where Strictly Come Dancing judge lives

Published at: **2019-11-02T13:00:41+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/showbiz-tv/shirley-ballas-stunning-london-home-17189924)

Leather sofas, huge flat screen televisions, modern furniture and a swimming pool.
Take a peek inside the plush home owned by Strictly Come Dancing head judge Shirley Ballas.
Ballas will appear on the BBC One reality contest this evening, as the contestants continue to thrill us in their pursuit of the Glitterball Trophy.
Shirley will be joined by her fellow judges - who include Craig Revel Horwood and Bruno Tonioli, as well as Motsi Mabuse - from 7pm.
The 59-year-old was met with a fierce backlash last week when she opted to send home Catherine Tydesley.
Many viewers tuning into the BBC One favourite were left stunned as Shirley opted to give Cath the boot.
The former Coronation Street star, known for her role as Eva Price on the ITV1 soap, departed on Sunday evening.
She and professional partner Johannes were beaten in the dance off, somewhat controversially, by BBC star Mike Bushell.
As Mike and pro partner Katya Jones were saved, Strictly viewers condemned Shirley over her decision.
Many called for her to be sacked - and some took to Twitter and Facebook to demand a boycott.
But when Shirley isn't in the studio judging, she's at home in London, where her modern, posh home serves her well.
Shirley's property boasts a gorgeous living room, with relaxing settees, crushed velvet sofas, big flat screen TVs and bespoke shelving.
She has dark hardwood floors that compliment the furniture and lines the walls with family photos, including school pictures of children she knows and snaps of friends.
The judge has comfortable leather sofas, which are decorated with brocade print cushions, and her kitchen has a stunning breakfast bar with a marble top.
The Strictly star even has an old fashioned clock and gothic style decorations on the walls, with glass tables in the dining room, a huge silver mirror looking over the seating area, and swimming pool and hot tub in the garden.
Shirley previously told  Hello!  magazine that she enlisted the help of interior design company The Sparkle Company to decorate her entire house.
She had been living in Los Angeles but moved back to London permanently to work on Strictly.
She told the publication: "When I got the Strictly job it made sense to come back to England.
"It was quite difficult to commute back and forth, and I really wanted to build my charity work. I simply can’t do that if I am on the other side of the world."

        
          *Strictly Come Dancing returns on Saturday at 7pm on BBC One
        
      
