
# Of 10 arrested by AA, 8 released, one Indian dies, an MP still under arrest

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Eleven Media Group Co., Ltd](https://elevenmyanmar.com/news/of-10-arrested-by-aa-8-released-one-indian-dies-an-mp-still-under-arrest)

 
The group of people comprising Indian citizens arrested by Arakan Army (AA) on November 3 has reportedly been released, but one Indian died while an Upper House MP continues to be detained.
"It is true that some of the arrestees have been released. A total of 10 people were arrested yesterday. Upper House MP Whayt Tin is still under detention for questioning. The remaining group members were released. They have arrived back in Kyauktaw, Rakhine State. When they were taken uphill yesterday, a 60-year-old Indian died from exhaustion. The group might have been released after such a death. Preparations were being made at over 6 am to carry the dead body by speedboat from Kyauktaw to Sittway. They are now asking for plane tickets and assistance to head for Yangon. Of the 10 people, eight were released, one died and MP Whayt Tin is still under arrest," said Chin State Minister Soe Htet.     
At 8 am on November 3, Upper House MP Whayt Tin for Chin State Constituency No (11), five Indian citizens, two interpreters and two speedboat drivers were arrested by AA members between Paletwa and Kyauktaw townships.
"We want them (AA) to release the MP as quickly as possible. This can harm the travel of civilians. Their acts are more like terrorism rather than revolution. We cannot accept that at all. This time we have to do something in response by seeking coordination. A member of parliament is also among the arrestees. It's very bad," said coordinator Saw Mya from Khumi Affairs Coordination Council.
 
 
 
