
# Bayer Tech Exec Jim Swanson Named Global CIO Of Johnson & Johnson

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Peter High**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/peterhigh/2019/11/04/bayer-tech-exec-jim-swanson-named-global-cio-of-johnson--johnson/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Former Monsanto CIO and Bayer CIO and Head of Digital Transformation for Crop Science Jim Swanson has been named Executive Vice President and Global CIO of Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest healthcare company. Swanson is responsible for amplifying Johnson & Johnson’s business impact and shaping its direction through the strategic use of technology. He will be based in New Jersey at the company headquarters.Joaquin Duato, Vice Chairman of the Exeuctive Committee at Johnson & Johnson said about Swanson’s appointment, “As a broadly based healthcare company, technology is critical to helping Johnson & Johnson better reach the patients and customers we serve. We are thrilled to welcome Jim to lead our technology organization. His experience advancing technology for global companies with large research, manufacturing and distribution needs – along with his proven commitment to talent development – will help us remain competitive both now and into the future.”
When asked about his role, Swanson noted, “I’m delighted to return to Johnson & Johnson at a time when we truly have the potential to change the trajectory of health for humanity. We have an opportunity to improve lives - and accelerate our business - through the strategic use of digital capabilities and data science. There is a tremendously talented and diverse technology team here, who are inspired by our mission and collaborating across the globe to transform healthcare.”
Swanson is a past winner of the Forbes CIO Innovation Award.
Peter High is President of  Metis Strategy , a business and IT advisory firm. His latest book is  Implementing World Class IT Strategy . He is also the author of  World Class IT: Why Businesses Succeed When IT Triumphs .  Peter moderates the Technovation podcast series. He speaks at conferences around the world. Follow him on Twitter @PeterAHigh.
