
# Woman who lost job after giving the finger to Trump wins Virginia election

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:43:13+00:00**

Author: **Mike Brest**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/woman-who-lost-job-after-giving-the-finger-to-trump-wins-virginia-election)

The woman who was fired after giving President Trump's motorcade the middle finger over two years ago won a seat on the county Board of Supervisors in Virginia.
Democrat Juli Briskman beat out Republican incumbent Suzanne Volpe to represent the Algonkian District in Loudoun County after getting 52% of the vote with 99% of the vote having been counted.
Back in October 2017, Briskman was photographed raising the middle finger to the president's motorcade while she was riding a bike. Many on the Left celebrated her actions, but it cost Briskman her job at Akima LLC, a government contractor.
She previously told the Washington Post that she hadn't considered running for office until she got fired.
“We have a right to peacefully protest and criticize and express dissent toward our government,” Briskman said before adding that she would "probably" do it again given the opportunity.
In addition to Briskman flipping one of the county seats blue, Virginia Democrats also flipped both legislative chambers. Going into election day Republicans had slim majorities in both the House of Delegates and the state Senate, however, Democratic Gov. Ralph Northam will now have his party in control of the state's legislative branch for the remainder of his term.
