
# 5 Lobos reach double figures in win over E New Mexico

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **GLEN ROSALES**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/6/5-lobos-reach-double-figures-in-win-over-e-new-mex/)

ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) - Led by 16 points from Makuach Maluach, five New Mexico players reached double figures and the Lobos put on a 92-71 show against DII foe Eastern New Mexico in a season opener Wednesday.
Carlton Bragg and Zane Martin each added 13 points and six rebounds for New Mexico. Corey Manigault also had 13 points along with three blocks.
Darius Sawyer scored 11 for the Greyhounds and Ibn Zaid had 10.
The game was relatively close through the first 10 minutes as New Mexico led just 20-16 and had only extended that to 45-34 by halftime.
But the Lobos opened the second half with a 16-4 run that gave them control of the game.
Although New Mexico put up plenty of points and had 22 assists, including 11 from JaQuan Lyle, the Lobos also had 21 turnovers, with Martin getting six with no assists.
Eastern was even worse on the turnover end with 22 against just 12 assists.
BIG PICTURE
New Mexico opened with a tune up that allowed Lobos coach Paul Weir to get a good look at highly touted transfers Lyle (Ohio State), Caldwell (Texas A&M;) and Martin (Towson). For Lyle, it was his first game since March 2017. He sat out the 2017-18 season as a transfer, then missed last season with a ruptured right Achilles suffered shortly before the season.
UP NEXT
New Mexico remains at home to face Cal State Northridge on Saturday.
Eastern New Mexico goes to Durango on Saturday to face New Mexico Highlands in the Lone Star-Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference Challenge.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
