
# Australian national arrested after alleged drunken attack on hotel security in Bali

Published at: **2019-11-01T08:59:56+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Bali**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/bali/news/australian-national-arrested-after-alleged-drunken-attack-on-hotel-security/)

An Australian national was detained by the police this week after he allegedly attacked security guards at a hotel in Kuta while he was drunk, authorities confirmed today. 
“We’ve detained him since two days ago. [When he was arrested] he was drunk,” I Putu Ika Prabawa from the Kuta Police told Bali Post.
According to reports from local media, the incident occurred in the early hours of Wednesday. The foreigner, identified as Scott James Harrison, allegedly went on a rampage and lashed out at the security guards of the hotel he was staying at, who were trying to calm him down. 
The 40-year-old reportedly threw punches at three security guards, who suffered bruises and went on to file a police report soon after. 
“After the incident [and] because there was enough evidence, we arrested the suspect immediately,” Prabawa said. 
Under Indonesia’s Criminal Code, Harrison faces a maximum sentence of two years and eight months for the alleged assault. 
It certainly isn’t the first time a foreigner has been arrested for alleged assault in Bali. Earlier this week, a prosecutor in Denpasar demanded Nicholas Carr, the Australian man who was arrested after he allegedly fly-kicked a man off a moving scooter in August, be sentenced to four months in prison.
