
# 11 Of The Worst Injuries In Football History

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:19:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/11-of-the-worst-injuries-in-football-history/666821)

A former FC Barcelona midfielder suffered a horrible fracture dislocation of his ankle on the weekend, but he is not the only player to have experienced a gruesome injury during a match.

        Click through the gallery above to see 11 players who suffered some of the worst injuries in football – please note: some of the images are not for the faint-hearted.
      
On Sunday, Everton midfielder Andre Gomes sustained a horrific injury following a tackle by Tottenham Hotspur forward Heung-min Son, which resulted in the Toffees player landing awkwardly and crashing into Spurs right-back Serge Aurier.
He suffered a dislocated fracture on his right ankle as a consequence, and underwent surgery on Monday, Everton have confirmed. Fortunately, he is expected to make a full recovery.
However, Gomes is not the only player to have experienced a shocking injury on the pitch, with Hugo Lloris also coming in for some suffering recently. The Spurs goalkeeper dislocated his elbow after falling awkwardly during a Premier League game against Brighton & Hove Albion last month.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
Manchester United's Luke Shaw was sidelined for 10 months after suffering a double leg break following a challenge by PSV Eindhoven's Hector Moreno in September 2015. Luckily, Shaw managed a full recovery.
Back in 2006, then Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech collided with Reading's Stephen Hunt, whose right knee hit the shot-stopper's head in the process. Cech was later diagnosed with a skull fracture, one that could have cost him his life. However, he was only sidelined for three months, but wore head protection for the rest of his career.
While Cech was not able to play on after his knock, former Manchester City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann gained legendary status after continuing with a broken neck in the 1956 FA Cup final. He suffered the injury 17 minutes from time after colliding with Birmingham City's Peter Murphy, but with medical treatment not as advanced back then, he decided to play on and made some crucial saves. His neck, though, was visibly crooked as he picked up his medal, and three days later, X-rays proved it was broken.

        
          Read: 11 Stars Who Suffered Horrible Leg Breaks
        
      
This article was compiled using information from a feature published by The Sun – you can find more players who suffered horrible injuries in the gallery above.
