
# Steve Clarke in SPFL plea as Scotland boss prepares for mammoth March match

Published at: **2019-11-05T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Gavin Berry, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/gavin-berry/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/steve-clarke-spfl-plea-scotland-20816870)

Steve Clarke wants the SPFL to help Scotland’s Euro 2020 qualification bid by ensuring there are no top-flight Sunday fixtures ahead of March’s massive semi-final playoff.
The national team gaffer admits it’s unrealistic to expect league chiefs to postpone the entire weekend card ahead of the country’s first play-off for a major tournament in 17 years.
But Clarke hopes the SPFL fixture schedulers can support him by negotiating with broadcasters to scrap any plans for live Sunday fixtures.
Clarke named his 25-man squad at Hampden on Tuesday - with Kieran Tierney again absent at Arsenal’s request as the Gunners manage an injury - for Scotland’s final two Group I qualifying fixtures away to Cyprus and at home to Kazakhstan.
Scotland are already out of the running for qualification but stand just 180 minutes away from ending a 22-year wait to reach a major tournament thanks to a playoff place secured by Clarke’s predecessor Alex McLeish through the Nations League.
Clarke’s side are likely to face Israel, Bulgaria or Romania in a semi-final at Hampden on March 26 with the Final just five days later.
There is a full Scottish Premiership card just five days before the semi-final and Clarke doesn’t want any games taking place on the Sunday which would give him 24 hours less preparation time.
And Clarke is hoping the SPFL fixture schedulers - who he branded “amateur” last season while boss of Kilmarnock - can aid him.
There could also be the option of bringing games forward to the Friday night to allow extra time but he admitted postponing the card is unlikely.
The 56-year-old, who will lead the nation into a first play-off since Berti Vogts against Holland in 2003, said: “I don’t think it would be possible for them (SPFL) to postpone the fixture card.
“It might be nice if there were no Sunday fixtures and maybe we could make that request but that would then become a dialogue between another organisation and the television people.
“It would be nice to think no one would be involved in a Sunday game. Maybe we could control that better in Scotland than down south.”
 
Tierney was missing from Clarke’s squad list after agreeing to Arsenal’s request to leave him out while Charlie Mulgrew and Johnny Russell are also unavailable for selection along with Matt Phillips, who scored in West Brom’s 2-0 win over Stoke City on Monday night, who asked not to be selected for personal reasons.
Scotland sit in fourth place in Group I and are a point behind Cyprus who they face in Nicosia next Saturday before Kazakhstan visit Glasgow three days later.
Despite having no chance of qualification through the conventional route, Clarke said: “Every game that you play for your country should be important.
“Every time you step out onto that pitch and play for the badge, for the country, for the supporters, it matters. We’ve got almost 3,000 supporters going out to Cyprus to watch us.
“All these things are important. Every game I go into, I want to win. These games are every bit as important – we want to finish third in the group.
“To do that, we probably need to win both games, so that’s what we should be focused on, and not thinking about March. If we win both games in November we’ll go in to March in a better place. So that is what we have to do.”
 

        The fixtures before the playoff
      
Celtic vs St Johnstone
Hamilton vs Hibs
Hearts vs Ross County
Livingston vs Aberdeen
Motherwell vs Kilmarnock
St Mirren vs Rangers
