
# Ray Parlour explains what he really doesn't like about Arsenal under Unai Emery

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:36:10+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/ray-parlour-explains-what-really-20786280)

Arsenal favourite Ray Parlour says his biggest problem with the Gunners under Unai Emery is their inability to see out a game.
Arsenal were leading Crystal Palace by two goals to nil last time out in the Premier League but threw away the advantage and came away with a point.
Against relegation-battling Watford it was a similar story with the Gunners again throwing away their lead and dropping points.
Parlour accepts that every side goes through good and bad periods and that Arsenal are in the midst of transition under Emery.
But the four-time FA Cup winner wants the Gunners to start seeing out games.
"Everyone goes through [bad times], every single club," Parlour said on Sky Sports.
"It's a little bit of a rollercoaster ride, especially after 38 games in a Premier League [season].
"You're going to get ups and downs but you've got to stick together, that's the most important thing. You've got to trust your mate alongside you and you've got to stick together, but it is all about results.
"What I don't like about Arsenal is they don't know how to see a game out.
"They do enough to get in front and then suddenly you need that bit of leadership or someone in that team to put people into the right positions for 10 or 15 minutes to win the game.
"And suddenly they've been giving the opposition the chance to get back into the game too often. That's the problem at the moment with the players."
