
# ‘Panipat’ trailer: Twitterati points out that the Arjun Kapoor-Sanjay Dutt starrer has same set as Hrithik Roshan’s ‘Jodhaa Akbar’

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:37:59+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/panipat-trailer-twitterati-points-out-that-the-arjun-kapoor-sanjay-dutt-starrer-has-same-set-as-hrithik-roshans-jodhaa-akbar/articleshow/71925526.cms)

Filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker is back with another film that will take the audience back in time. The trailer of his upcoming film ‘Panipat’ dropped this afternoon that offered a perfect blend of action, drama and romance. However, it received rather mixed reactions from fans who took to social media to point out the hits and misses of the Arjun Kapoor, Sanjay Dutt and Kriti Sanon starrer.
Set in 1761, ‘Panipat’ is reportedly about the Maratha empire waging war to protect the land from the invading Afghan ruler Ahmad Shah Abdali. Packed with a lot of action and sword-wielding scenes the trailer proved to be quite the blood bath. In between the gory battle scenes, were some visuals of the grand sets.
Interestingly, netizens pointed out that a scene in the film was shot on the same sets that Ashutosh shot his 2008 film ‘Jodhaa Akbar’ that featured Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in lead roles.
Taking to Twitter they shared photos of both scenes and stating that it was one of the reasons why they had a feeling of déjà vous while watching the trailer.
