
# Those eligible for Selangor free water scheme to be known early next year

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:38:46+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/those-eligible-selangor-free-water-scheme-be-known-early-next-year)

SHAH ALAM (Nov 4): The list of Selangor people who will benefit from the free water programme under the Darul Ehsan Water Scheme will only be known early next year, the state legislative assembly was told today.
Menteri Besar Amirudin Shari said the list would be known, after a cross-check with the Inland Revenue Board (LHDN).
“The registration process to gather and update the data of applicants has started since Sept 30, and it is expected to end on Dec 31.
"... and starting January next year, all these applications will be reviewed and only then will we find out the list of successful applicants," he said when replying to a question from Datuk Mohd Imran Tamrin (BN-Sungai Panjang).
Amirudin said the state government urged those eligible for its free water scheme to apply online through www.ssipr.selangor.gov.my or by filling up the application form manually.
Amirudin said more than 700,000 out of 1.6 million Pengurusan Air Selangor Sdn Bhd (Air Selangor) account holders were expected to benefit from the scheme.
He said the state government had so far spent about RM1.8 billion to supply the 20 cubic metre of free water every month since the inception of the programme on June 1, 2008, until last August.
“Under the Darul Ehsan Water Scheme, the financing cost will be reduced from RM180 million to RM96 million, and the growth rate may reach RM200 million soon.
"So through this scheme, the state government is expected to reduce the financing by 50 per cent," he said. — Bernama
