
# Exclusive! Ayushmann Khurrana on ‘Bala’ and ‘Ujda Chaman’ comparisons: The same idea can come to anybody’s mind at anytime

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:46:36+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/exclusive-ayushmann-khurrana-on-bala-and-ujda-chaman-comparisons-the-same-idea-can-come-to-anybodys-mind-at-anytime/articleshow/71875103.cms)

Ayushmann Khurrana starrer ‘Bala’ is set to hit the screens next week, while another film based on the same topic of premature balding, ‘Ujda Chaman’ released last Friday. Both the movies talk about balding and have been in a controversy over the same too. Speaking about it, Ayushmann told ETimes in an exclusive interaction, “Comparisons are bought to happen with all the films, either it is released before or after, there will be comparisons with ‘Housefull 4’ and ‘Made In China’ too.”
Speaking about the similarity in theme, Ayushmann revealed how the story of ‘Bala’ was developed. “I got four different offers on the same subject and I went with the best director-producer. Amar Kaushik is a very credible name and Dinesh Vijan is a big producer. The concept was given by Calcutta based writer Pavil Bhattacharya, and it was later developed by Naren Bhatt. They’ve done a fantastic job with it which is very different from their film (‘Ujda Chaman’), you will realise the difference once you watch it. Films like ‘Woh Saat Din’, ‘Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam’ and ‘Manmarziyaan’ are based on similar themes but no one has ever filed a case or nor there has been any controversy. It is just that the same idea can come anytime, in anybody’s mind and it can happen in the future too. In the future too there will be films on baldness and love trials. But that doesn’t mean that they are copied, they are also original films.”
Ayushmann is confident that despite the gap of a week, both the films will work positively at the box office, “Both the films have released close to each other but as an audience you will realise that they are poles apart. They are very different, their flavour and the very essence of both the films is very different. We are very happy and proudly presenting to you ‘Bala’. And we are not pointing fingers at anybody. With grace and dignity we are just saying good luck to them as well and may both the films work that’s it,” concluded Ayushmann.
