
# Zack Smith made a memorable outdoor debut with the Regina Pats

Published at: **2019-11-01T19:56:13+00:00**

Author: **Greg Harder**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/hockey/regina-pats/zack-smith-made-a-memorable-outdoor-debut-with-the-regina-pats)

Zack Smith’s first WHL game will be difficult to top.
Just 48 hours after signing with the Regina Pats, the 18-year-old forward suited up for Sunday’s Prairie Classic outdoor game at Mosaic Stadium.
Despite a 5-4 overtime loss to the Calgary Hitmen, Smith’s debut was something he expects to remember for the rest of his days.
“It was probably the coolest hockey experience of my life,” said the Saskatoon product. “I knew it was a pretty big deal and the guys all reminded me about it the first day I got here. I heard I was going to be playing so I was just excited for the moment.
“It was pretty amazing.”
How about nerve-racking?
It’s not every day you get to skate in a football stadium and help your new team establish a single-game franchise record for attendance (15,401 tickets purchased).
“I think it was more excitement (than nerves),” Smith said. “I knew there weren’t too many expectations so I could just kind of get pucks deep and stay positive on the bench and embrace it.
“All the guys were pretty excited. They came out and gave a really good effort and took a really good team to overtime, so it was awesome.”
Given the fact that he had just arrived in Regina, it’s no surprise that Smith didn’t see a lot of ice-time during the Prairie Classic.
However, his opportunities should increase as he gets acclimated to the team. Regina visits the Prince Albert Raiders on Friday night before playing host to the Red Deer Rebels on Sunday afternoon.
“He’ll see more minutes this weekend,” said head coach Dave Struch. “Hopefully he can (bring) some skill that we need in our lineup. If we put him in some situations this weekend against Prince Albert and Red Deer, we hope that some of that stuff comes out.”
Asked to describe his best attributes, Smith said he’s a “fast player” who likes to provide energy. One way to do that is by contributing on the forecheck and “making some contact.”
The 5-foot-11, 165-pounder spent the past two seasons with the SJHL’s Melfort Mustangs. He enjoyed a productive start this year, tallying six goals and 14 points in 15 games.
“I was really confident going in as one of the top players,” Smith said. “I got to show off my skill a little bit and score a few goals so that was good.”
It remains to be seen if Smith’s game will translate to the WHL, but there’s only one way to find out. Regina’s scouts evidently liked what they saw in the junior A ranks so he was added to the WHL club’s protected list before the decision was eventually made to sign him.
“They identified him as someone who can skate and has some skill and has some hockey IQ,” Struch explained. “Obviously we hope there’s something to him that our scouts have seen and we can use in our lineup.”
Although he wasn’t selected in the WHL bantam draft, Smith had been hoping for a shot at the major-junior level. There will be a learning curve in Regina but he feels good about how things have gone so far.
“I’m really excited to see what I can do,” he said. “I’ve learned a lot of things (already) from the guys — lots of work ethic, always coming to the rink trying to get better every day. I want to come in with a good attitude, work really hard and do whatever I can to help the team win some games.”

        gharder@postmedia.com
      
