
# See all the most outrageous outfits from the MTV EMAs

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:05:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/showbiz/see-all-the-most-outrageous-outfits-from-the-mtv-emas-961691.html)

In terms of celebrity fashion, November is a low month. Awards season was way back at the start of the year, and even the glamorous summer parties and foreign film festivals feel like a distant memory.
Luckily, we have the MTV Europe Music Awards to provide relief from this red carpet drought. On Sunday night, the ceremony was held in Seville, Spain, and was hosted by American singer Becky G.
This isn’t a stuffy kind of event, but rather an opportunity for celebrities to have a bit of fun with their fashion – and yes, this often means outrageous outfits with a fair bit of skin on show. Here are some of the standout looks from the night…
Kicking off the theme of barely-there dressing is supermodel Joan Smalls, who wore a Brandon Maxwell ensemble, made up of a black bra and sleek pink skirt. If anyone’s going to make an outfit seemingly held together by a few strings look effortless, it’s Smalls.
British singer Dua Lipa was a slightly subdued presence on the red carpet. We’re used to seeing her in loud colours and racy designs, but instead, she opted for a sleek and sexy look, made up of a black long-sleeved top, leather corset belt, long skirt and tights attached by suspenders. It’s the kind of outfit Lipa could easily audition for The Matrix in.
However, when Lipa took to the stage to open the show, she very much returned to form with her fashion. Performing with over 40 dancers, the 24-year-old stood out in a skimpy black bodysuit with all kinds of suggestive cut-outs. It also gave her the opportunity to show off her new hairstyle of bleached blonde locks with dark roots coming through, a look we’re sure we’ll be seeing everywhere soon.
American singer Halsey wore a fun Peter Pilotto dress on the red carpet, which was perfect for the occasion; brightly coloured and cut short to show off her legs. However, the most out-there part of Halsey’s ensemble was definitely her make-up – red eyeshadow is not an easy thing to pull off without looking like you’ve come down with an unfortunate rash.
Like Lipa, Halsey changed outfits for her performance. With a see-through white frothy dress, the vibe was very much that of a sexy Miss Havisham. Halsey has only been in the public eye for a few years now, but she’s proved she’s not afraid to take sartorial risks.
The red carpet was full of supermodels, and Doutzen Kroes was there to show that sexy dressing doesn’t have to mean baring all. She wore an all-leather belted boiler suit with studs and Nineties-style strappy sandals.
With its intricate dresses that create optical illusions, Iris van Herpen is a notoriously difficult designer to wear, as celebrities risk the outfit wearing them, rather than the other way around. However, British model Leomie Anderson isn’t one to shy away from a challenge, and she really knew how to make the red minidress work.
Spanish singer Rosalia was channeling Eighties power dressing on the red carpet, wearing a monochromatic spotty suit with a matching bandeau and giant shoulders. An orange miniature handbag gave the outfit the pop of colour it needed, although we are a bit confused as to why her trousers are so long they swallow her feet.
American singer Becky G hosted the evening, so she pulled out all the stops with multiple outfit changes. Our favourite of the night was a red frothy mullet dress which comes from high fashion designer Giambattista Valli’s collaboration with high street brand H&M, making it one of the more affordable outfits we saw on the night (and available in selected stores and online from November 7) – but with layers upon layers of tulle, it’s certainly something you have to wear with confidence.

        Three-year-old son of TV chef Jean-Christophe Novelli may never talk
      
