
# Man stopped by police near Overtown and caught with huge drugs haul in car

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Wishaw Press, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/wishaw-press/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/man-stopped-police-near-overtown-20815228)

A man was stopped by police near Overtown who then discovered a huge drugs haul in his car.
Graeme Gallagher was caught on the Garrion Bridge after officers had observed him driving in an erratic manner for several miles.
Gallagher, 27, admitted being concerned in the supply of the class A drug last December.
Jennifer Guy, prosecuting, told Hamilton Sheriff Court that police officers noticed the vehicle on the East Kilbride Expressway shortly before 7pm.
She explained: “The driver appeared very hesitant. He was on and off the brakes, driving well under the speed limit.
“He travelled on to the M74, took the exit for Larkhall and headed for Garrion Bridge. At all times he was driving in a hesitant manner.
“Eventually police stopped him.
“Officers saw a polythene bag containing white powder next to the driver’s seat. He was detained and admitted he had some ‘gear’ in his pocket.
“A small amount of cocaine was found inside his pocket.
“There was in total 246.59 grams of cocaine with a purity level of 70 per cent.
“The wholesale value of the drugs would be up to £12,000, but if sub divided and sold it would give a total value of £24,700.
“Gallagher answered ‘No comment’ to every question the police put to him.”
Gallagher’s lawyer said the dad of two works full time as a labourer for a bricklayer and “realises the seriousness” of his situation.
Sheriff Thomas Millar deferred sentence until November 14 for a criminal justice social work report and a restriction of liberty assessment.
Gallagher, of Brackenhill Drive, Hamilton, had his bail continued.
