
# Zlatan Ibrahimovic Linked With A Move From MLS To Bologna Of Serie A

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bobby McMahon**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bobbymcmahon/2019/11/01/zlatan-ibrahimovic-linked-with-a-move-from-mls-to-bologna-of-serie-a/)

Not for the first time, Zlatan Ibrahimović is on the verge of becoming a free agent. Ibrahimović still has two months left on his deal with the LA Galaxy but a 5-3 playoff loss to Los Angeles FC last week brought to an end the 2019 MLS season for both player, and team. A number of Zlatan’s former teams are said to be interested in resigning the 38-year-old but Bologna may be in pole position. Corriere dello Sport is reporting that Bologna is offering Zlatan around $9M and a two-year deal.
Bologna’s chairman is Joey Saputo who also owns the Montreal Impact of MLS. Saputo is the son of "Lino" Saputo, the founder and owner of Saputo Inc. Forbes estimates the family fortune at $4.9B and the family business generates over $11B a year in revenue.
Saputo and New York lawyer Joe Tacopina were part of an ownership group, BFC 1909 Lux Spv S.A. of Luxembourg, that bought Bologna in 2014 for around $25M.
In 2015, Bologna was promoted back to Serie A and although the team has flirted with relegation on more than one occasion they did finish 10th in 2019 albeit with only six points more than relegated Empoli.
Bologna’s manager is Sinisa Mihajlovic and he played with and “coached” Zlatan at Inter from 2006 to 2008. Zlatan even credited free kick expert Mihajlovic for helping him with his free lick technique,
Inter was just one of Zlatan’s many stops at some of Europe’s biggest teams. He has played for Ajax, Juventus, Inter, Barcelona, AC Milan, and Paris Saint-Germain.
Zlatan signed for the Galaxy in March 2018 as a free agent after being released by Manchester United and he made an instant impact with two goals - including the winner - in his debut match against LAFC.
Ibrahimović scored 22 goals in 2018 but the Galaxy missed out on a playoff position by one point. This past season he bagged eight more goals and the Galaxy reached the playoffs for the first time since 2016.
While Ibrahimović scored at one end the Galaxy’s biggest problem was stemming the flow at the other - 64 goals allowed in 2018 and another 59 in 2019.
Few would argue that Zlatan hasn’t been good box office for MLS even though his personality is polarizing - a superstar with charisma and superb technique or a blow-hard that simply never delivered in the most important games at the very top level.
After the playoff loss Zlatan was uncharacteristically coy as to his soccer future and that led some to suggest that the door remained open for a possible return to the Galaxy and MLS.
Zlatan’s original deal with LAG was worth just $1.5M a year but his salary rocketed to $7.2M for 2019 and he became the highest paid player in MLS history. Despite saying that it wasn’t about the money, Bologna, and a level of interest from others, gives Zlatan leverage.
Over his 20 year professional career team’s have a paid a combined $200M in transfer fees and Ibrahimović has won over 30 club trophies.
His move to Manchester United cost the club nothing after he allowed his contract to rundown with PSG. After suffering a horrendous knee injury against Anderlecht in the 2017 Europa League he was released by Manchester United only for the club to turn round and sign him once again in August of the same year.
