
# Investors' Cash Exposure Rebounds

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Charles Rotblut**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/investor/2019/11/04/investors-cash-exposure-rebounds/)

Individual investors’ exposure to cash rebounded last month after having fallen to a 20-month low in September. The October AAII Asset Allocation Survey also shows decreases in exposure to equity and fixed-income investments.Stock and stock fund allocations pulled back by 1.8 percentage points to 64.7%. Equity allocations are above their historical average of 61.0% for the 79th consecutive month.
Bond and bond fund allocations declined 0.6 percentage points to 18.3%. Fixed-income allocations were last lower in April 2019 (17.1%). Nonetheless, bond and bond fund allocations remained above their historical average of 16.0% for the eighth consecutive month and the ninth time in ten months.
Cash allocations rose 2.4 percentage points to 17.0%. This is a four-month high. Even with the rebound, cash allocations remain below their historical average of 23.0% for the 95th consecutive month.
The change in cash may be partially due to differences in which AAII members participated in the survey during October relative to September. The rebound in yields may also have played a role. As far as stocks, optimism in our weekly sentiment survey continued to remain below average throughout October.
Last month’s special question asked AAII members how the Federal Reserve’s interest rate cuts have influenced their decisions about what to hold in their portfolio. One out of five (20%) respondents are now looking at certificates of deposit (CDs) and/or high-quality corporate bonds rather than Treasurys. About 15% of respondents are now investing in more consumer staple stocks. Additionally, 12% of respondents state that they are looking at more dividend-paying stocks. On the other hand, a similar number of respondents (13%) state that they are more risk-averse following the rate cuts and are holding more cash. Finally, about 40% of members say that Federal Reserve interest rate cuts have not influenced their portfolio allocation decisions.
Here is a sampling of the responses:
(For more about how the low-interest-rate environment is affecting how individual investors invest, please see our Big Question survey in the November AAII Journal.)
October AAII Asset Allocation Survey results:
October AAII Asset Allocation Survey details:
Historical Averages:

        The numbers are rounded and may not add up to 100%.
      
----

        The AAII Asset Allocation Survey has been conducted monthly since November 1987. The survey and its results are available online. Want to weigh in? Take the survey yourself and see results online.
      
