
# Brothexit? Noel Gallagher Calls Boris Johnson More Entertaining Than His Brother Liam

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:53:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/society/201911071077246065-brothexit-noel-gallagher-calls-boris-johnson-more-entertaining-than-his-brother-liam/)


        Oasis stars Noel and Liam Gallagher split in 2009 after the two had a nasty fight during which, according to Noel, his younger brother tried to attack him with a guitar, wielding it like an axe. A decade later the two still don’t talk and judging by comments Noel made in recent interview, an Oasis reunion doesn't appear to be in the cards.
      
Noel Gallagher said UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson would be more entertaining as a brother than his sibling Liam Gallagher. Former Oasis singer-songwriter and front man of the band Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds made the statement during his appearance on the Norwegian-Swedish TV show Skavlan. The host asked the musician a tricky question: who would he rather have as a brother – British PM Boris Johnson or Liam Gallagher.
Noel paused for several seconds and said the PM would be more entertaining as his language is “more superior" and that he “would not get on with either of them”. The 52-year-old singer confessed that he couldn’t forgive people once the line has been crossed. Despite the fact that the two parted ways a decade ago, relations between the two rock stars remain quite tense, with the younger brother sending threatening messages to Noel’s kids and insulting his wife on social media.
