
# One Direction's Niall Horan says he's written a song with Lewis Capaldi

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:23:20+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/one-directions-niall-horan-says-20804019)

Former One Direction star Niall Horan has fingers in many pies.
Speaking at MTV's European Music Awards in Seville, Niall revealed that he's written a song with none other than pal Lewis Capaldi.
The pair are set to go on the road together as Lewis will be supporting the Ireland native on his 2020 Nice To Meet Ya tour.
The 26 year old also made it clear that the tune might never see the light of day.
"We don't know yet," Niall admitted, "We wrote something and if it's good enough we'll release it."
Chatting about the new album which he's touring next year, he said: "It's been good. I had a lot of fun writing it and I'm just happy to be back doing this kind of stuff because when you spend so many hours back in the studio, you miss all of this.
"When I got out of the car tonight I got a shock because I forgot what all of this was like. It's crazy.
"But making the album was just a lot of love. I put no real pressure on myself and I feel like, because of that, I got some good songs.
"The last time I released music I was 23 and now I'm 26. You don't realise but between 23 and 26 you learn so much about yourself, you learn so much musically.
"Your playing gets better. Your songwriting gets better.
"I would say it's changed a bit."
Niall went on the X Factor back in 2011 and was put into a group with four other lads - Harry Styles, Zayn Malik, Liam Payne and Louis Tomlinson.
They became One Direction, global boy band sensation and heart throbs.
The boys have since gone their separate ways with musically unique solo career paths.
Liam told Mirror Online: "I speak to Louis all the time. Louis' great, he's doing really well.
"We've always had a good connection in the way we were both trying to manage the band together."
