
# Exclusive! Salman Khan feels comfortable in shorts and ganji, reveals his stylist Ashley Rebello

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:30:07+00:00**

Author: **Milana Rao**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/dabangg-3-star-salman-khan-feels-comfortable-in-shorts-and-ganji-reveals-his-stylist-ashley-rebello/articleshow/71952001.cms)

Designer and Salman Khan’s personal celebrity Ashley Rebello has been hitting the headlines for his cool work with the lead cast of Prabhudheva’s ‘Dabangg 3’. In an exclusive interview with ETimes, Ashley opened up about working with Salman Khan, the actor’s style and more. Excerpts from the interview:
Tell us something about Salman Khan’s look in ‘Dabangg 3’ as ‘Chulbul Pandey’.The film revolves around his past and it is the story that is before he became an inspector. So you will get to see a new Chulbul Pandey in terms of his clothes, looks, and hairstyle. You will get to see two Chulbul Pandey at the cost of one.
How has been your experience working with Salman Khan?I have been with Salman Khan for the past 14 years. My first movie ‘Wanted’ was with him. It has been a wonderful journey. I am looking forward to many more years with him. After so many years, if I am still there in the industry and doing Salman’s styling, I must be doing something right. He loves how I dress him up. I have tried to capture his personality with every character that he has played on screen. I try to evolve his style with his age and also with the personality that he is and also the character that he is playing.
How would you describe Salman’s personal style?Salman’s personal style is very simple. He is comfortable in shorts and ganji. He loves that. Otherwise, it is more jeans and t-shirts. On formal occasions, he likes to wear suits. He looks so dapper that he carries them off with a different panache.
Ashley has styled Sonakshi Sinha, Salman Khan and debutant Saiee Manjrekar in ‘Dabangg 3’. It also stars South superstar Sudeep in a negative role. It is slated to hit the theatres on December 20, 2019.
