
# Why only one nostril will ever get blocked when you have a cold

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:07:32+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/only-one-nostril-ever-blocked-3512775)

Your nose is a place of mystery. Why in the midst of a cold does only one airway get blocked, while runs faster than Usain Bolt?
Experts say it has something to do with your reproductive regions – the penis and the clitoris, to be precise.
Apparently, the same erectile tissue present in your underwear is also in your nose. It turns out your nose and your sexual organs are inextricably linked.
Australia-based scientist Dr Karl Kruszelnicki said that the reason it feels like one side of your nose is clogged and struggling, while the other is snotty and gross, is due to "nasal anatomic makeup".
Dr Karl explained it all on his Triplej radio show after a cold-ridden listener posed the question about one-sided blockages.
He told the caller that the "erectile tissue in your nose is on a constant cycle that helps with the flow of nasal air and your sense of smell".
Basically, your nostrils split the workload. Throughout the day, one nostril breathes, giving the other time off, alternating every few hours. Your autonomic nervous system – which controls things like digestion and heart rate – takes command.
And it's the same tissue type found in the penis and clitoris that controls the opening and closing of your two nasal passages. They swell and deflate.
Your nose doesn't get aroused of course, but the feeling of the blockage is amplified when you're ill. You notice the clogging and your regular nasal cycle is more noticeable, because everything is inflamed.
The way your nose operates isn't just to give nostrils a rest though. It also maintains a keen sense of smell – our scent receptors also work in tandem.
The answer to your nasal problems is in your pants.
Some smells are better acquired through a 'fast working' airstream. Others filter more readily in a 'slow working' one. So having nasal passages running at different speeds also helps you take in that good smelling pie, or your delicious quiche you baked for your friend Simon.
Switching congestion also gives the mucous and cilia (the tiny hairs up in your nose) a break from the onslaught of air you take in. The change prevents the insides of your nostrils from drying out and cracking.
Scratchy throats and hacking barks are being heard across Plymouth, and many sufferers are finding it hard to shift.
So what can magic away the nasty cough that's irritating sufferers and those stood nearby?
Thousands of us are suffering from the nasty cough virus which first emerged in mid-December, and has continued into January – with even the Queen falling victim.
Hospital admissions have soared and surgeries have reported seeing a large number of patients with a hacking cough that cannot be treated with antibiotics.
And for some it can turn into a more serious lung infection.
All of which makes last week's revelation that over-the-counter cough medicines are virtually useless far from welcome.
Researchers from the American Chemical Society claim cough syrups work little better than a placebo, while other popular remedies such as echinacea, vitamin C and zinc are not likely to help either.
At best cough suppressants can leave you drowsy and give you a better night's sleep, claim the scientists.
But their report concluded there's little or no evidence that the heavily marketed active ingredients – including the DXM (dextromethorphan) often found in 'night time' formulations – do anything to ease the cough. So what can we do about it?
Prof Ron Eccles, director of the Common Cold Centre at Cardiff University says: "Coughing does actually have an important purpose. It's a safety reflex, your body's way of keeping unwanted stuff from getting into your lungs.
However, post-virus inflammation of the airways means this debilitating symptom can linger long after the initial infection has gone."
But there are some simple tricks experts say will bring you some relief by soothing your irritated airways.
Drink plenty of fluids: Keeping hydrated helps thin out the excess mucus and reduces your cough reflex. Drinking liquids also helps keep mucus membranes moist. This is particularly helpful in winter when houses tend to be hot and dry.
Add moisture to the air: Dry air can be irritating, so a humidifier will also help ease congestion.
The downside is that if you don't clean humidifiers thoroughly after every use they can become breeding grounds for fungus and mould which they then pump into the air, exacerbating coughs further.
Bowls of water or damp towels placed on a radiator make for a safe, cheap alternative to plug-in humidifiers.
Have a steamy shower: The heat can loosen secretions in your nose which can ease a cough.
Try putting a few drops of eucalyptus or menthol oil on the shower wall (but never directly onto your skin) to boost the effect. Sucking cough sweets can help, says the American Chemical Society. They stimulate the production of saliva which soothes your irritated throat.
Sipping hot drinks: A warm cuppa combines the steam effect for thinning mucus with throat-soothing effects. Many people particularly swear by honey and fresh lemon in hot water.
Keep a glass of water handy, day and night: Sipping water can help thwart a coughing fit, and the sooner you can stop one the better. Continually coughing irritates your airways further, making your cough last longer.
Sleep with extra pillows: When it comes to a night-time cough, gravity is the enemy. All the mucus you would normally swallow during the day flows back and irritates your throat as you lie down.
Keep the air inside your home irritant-free: Air fresheners and scented candles may seem harmless, but for some people they can cause sinus irritation which produces extra mucus that leads to even more coughing.
The worst irritant in the air is smoke, so avoid cigarettes and any areas where there are smokers.
Stay inside in the warm as much as possible: Cold air can exacerbate a cough. So if you have a cold or other respiratory infection avoid being outside for too long.
Although most coughs at this time of year are virus-related, there are several other types of cough it pays to be aware of.
They can be a warning sign that you have an underlying condition such as asthma, heartburn or even cancer.
Here's how to work out which you have and when to see your GP…
Symptom: An irritating cough that follows a nasty cold or flu bout.
Cause: A fly virus typically causes inflammation which leads to mucus draining down the back of the throat triggering a cough.
Coughs linger because the inflammation often stays long after the initial illness.
Treat it: Take a paracetamol for any pain or fever and sip a hot drink, which promotes secretions in the airways, soothing irritation. See above for more tips.
Symptom: A hacking cough, often bringing up green-looking phlegm.
Cause: A lung infection usually following a cold or flu virus.
Treat it: Lots of fluids to prevent dehydration and to thin the mucus. Antibiotics will only help if the cause is a bacterial infection.
Symptom: A chronic dry cough that's worse at night, sometimes disturbing sleep.
Cause: An irritating night cough is often the first sign of asthma, especially in children, but you can develop it at any age.
Treat it: Talk to your GP – typically the first thing they will recommend is a blue 'reliever' inhaler, which releases medication to open the airways.
Symptom: A 'throaty' cough following a meal, and sometimes waking you at night, often leaving a nasty acid taste in your mouth.
Cause: Acid reflux (heartburn) occurs when stomach acid flows back up the oesophagus, irritating the throat and triggering a cough. Large or rich meals late at night are triggers.
Treat it: If it's occasional, a simple over-the-counter indigestion treatment will reduce the production of stomach acid. If it's frequent, see your GP.
Symptom: Uncontrollable coughing fits, which may produce a 'whoop' sound.
Cause: This highly contagious disease has been on the rise again in recent years. A vaccine is given to babies and pregnant women.
Treat it: Babies and young children are at the highest risk of severe complications and if they do succumb need close monitoring and often antibiotics.
Symptom: A dry, niggling cough, often worse at night
Cause: ACE inhibitors, a common drug used to control high blood pressure, can cause a chronic cough in up to 20 percent of patients.
Treat it: If you think your cough coincided with starting medication, talk to your GP about alternatives.
Symptom: A new cough lasting longer than three weeks – especially in smokers.
Also look out for – coughing up blood, breathlessness, weight loss, tiredness or chest pain.
Cause: Anyone experiencing any of the above symptoms needs to get to talk to their GP immediately as they could indicate lung cancer – the third most common cancer in the UK.
Smoking accounts for 90% of cases.
Treat it: Once picked up by X-ray, treatment can involve a combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
