
# AUS vs PAK | Great effort from bowlers to restrict Pakistan to just 107, states Aaron Finch

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:25:30+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/03/aus-vs-pak-great-effort-from-bowlers-to-restrict-pakistan-to-just-107-states-aaron-finch?utm_medium=rss)


        After the first T20I between Australia and Pakistan was called off due to rain, Aaron Finch has stated that it was a great effort from the bowlers to put on a show in the limited time available. He has also rued the fact that rain had the last laugh but added that one couldn't do anything about it.
      
Heavy rains kept on stopping the game in Sydney on Sunday and even though match officials somehow managed to get the Pakistan innings going until the 15th over, Australia couldn't bat for long enough to get a result out of the game. Aaron Finch was the destructive batsman among the openers and his 37 runs came off just 16 balls. Australia were cruising and it is understandable why Finch was frustrated after the washout.
"It's frustrating. But you can't do too much about the weather. "We played really well. To restrict them to 107 off 15 overs was a great effort and then to be on track to get them was nice," Finch was quoted as saying by Times of India.
Had there been more 11 balls bowled in the game, a valid result would have been possible under DLS, but a 20-minute break between innings prevented this from Australia going 1-0 up in the series. Finch was livid about that.
"If you're cutting overs off the game and you still have a 20-minute break it doesn't make much sense to me," said Finch. "But it's part of the rules and you can't do much about it."
The second T20I between the two teams will be played at the Manuka Oval in Canberra on Tuesday.
