
# Soldier on leave from J&K attacked by Koppal villagers

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/others/soldier-on-leave-from-jk-attacked-by-koppal-villagers/articleshow/71944436.cms)

Lance Naik Basavaraj of the 401 Light AD Regiment (Composite) who came home from Poonch sector in Jammu and Kashmir to oversee the construction of his new house in his native village of Badihalla in Yalburi Taluk, Koppal district was allegedly assaulted by the villagers. Some of the Badihalla villagers were unhappy with Basavaraj’s house construction as he had not asked permission from the villagers. The villagers had warned Basavaraj against the construction of the house following which he had filed a police complaint about the alleged threat. The villagers did not take this well and when Basavaraj returned, he and his family members were assaulted with bamboo sticks on November 3. “The house is in the final stages of completion. I had come back to oversee the building of the compound wall. Some villagers objected to the construction of and warned us about going ahead with it. They even pelted stones on our house and tried to scare us. After this incident, I decided to file a police case under IPC sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), which enraged them further,” Basavaraj told Bangalore Mirror. “While I suffered injuries on my hand, my mother was beaten on the head and lost a lot of blood. My father too, was rained with blows,” Basavaraj added. Basavaraj and his family members are currently being treated at the Government hospital in Koppal. While they have lodged a complaint with the police (a case under IPC sections 307), Basavaraj said that there is a threat to their lives. “I am on leave for a month following which I would have to report back to duty. My brothers are also working in Bengaluru and my aged parents will be left alone in the village,” he said. Indian Army Forum, a support and welfare forum for military personnel has taken up the matter with the Director General of Police stating that Basavaraj’s family members should be protected while he is away on duty.
