
# Race-Prepped Nissan 370Z Roars Into SEMA With 750-Plus HP

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Alaniz**

Original: [Motor1.com](https://www.motor1.com/news/380476/race-prepped-nissan-370z-sema/?utm_source=RSS&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=RSS-all-)

Nissan is arriving at this year’s SEMA Show in a race suit and helmet. The automaker is showcasing a race-prepped Nissan 370Z that’ll compete in the 2020 Global Time Attack racing season. Z1 Motorsport built the modified coupe, which has a host of upgraded parts from various suppliers, in conjunction with the Nissan Motorsports team.
Z1 Motorsport started with a blank canvas before adding the roll cage. To keep weight low, the team added a custom carbon fiber aerodynamic package. It included a rear diffuser and front splitter. The rest of the body is 2020 370Z NISMO bodywork. The hood features two massive vents while the wing hanging over the back end of the car borders on obnoxious yet awesome. 
Powering Z1 Motorsport’s 370Z is a modified 3.7-liter VQ series V6 engine. However, it’s prepped to deliver 750 horsepower (559 kilowatts) or more. That includes the Garrett GTX 3076 turbochargers, diamond pistons, and so much more. Power routes through an HGT Precision six-speed sequential transmission to the 18-inch aluminum-alloy wheels. 
The team built a custom suspension and steering system for the 370Z, optimized for Global Time Attack racing. The team used Nismo racing parts along with a custom Brembo brake system for stopping power. Multiple cooling systems were also installed for the oil, the transmission, and the differential. 
Inside, it’s all business with a single FIA-spec race seat and custom-fabricated instrument panel. All the racing essentials are inside, including a quick-release steering wheel, safety nets, and race harness. 
Z1 Motorsport’s Nissan 370Z arrives in Vegas with a three other modded models – the Nissan Kicks Street Sport, the Nissan Frontier Desert Runner, and accessorized Nissan Titan. All will be on display at the SEMA Show that starts today and runs through November 8. 
Source: Nissan

          LAS VEGAS (Nov. 5, 2019) – Nissan is bringing the heat to this year’s SEMA (Specialty Equipment Market Association) Show with high-powered vehicles designed to blow performance enthusiasts’ minds.
        

          The Nissan hat trick includes a competition-ready Global Time Attack TT 370Z racer, a beefed-up Frontier Desert Runner sporting an extra pair of cylinders, and a kicked-up-many-notches Kicks Street Sport1.
        

          Taking center stage among these vehicles is a new 2020 Nissan TITAN pickup fully decked out with an array of Genuine Nissan Accessories.
        

          Following is an overview of the vehicles on display Nov. 5-8 at Nissan North America Booth #40257, located in the Lower South Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center.
        

          The 2019 SEMA Show is likely one of the few times people will see the Nissan Global Time Attack TT 370Z standing still. The creators of the extreme, 750-plus horsepower 370Z – Z1 Motorsports of Carrollton, Ga., working in conjunction with the Nissan Motorsports team – plan on competing with the vehicle throughout the 2020 Time Attack racing season. As one of the group’s wildest purpose-built Z makeovers in its long history of Nissan projects, every aspect had to be functional and durable. It also had to be low weight.
        

          The transformation started with a stripped, acid-dipped 370Z unibody with the structure shaved of any unneeded pieces. A full cage was added inside for safety and structural rigidity, while the exterior was treated to a full custom carbon fiber aerodynamic package, including a 3D front splitter, rear diffuser and sideboards.
        

          As the bodywork was underway, the stock 370Z VQ series 3.7-liter DOHC V6 engine was completely competition prepped, including the addition of Garrett GTX 3076 turbochargers, new fuel management and electronics systems and Z1 Motorsports race exhaust system. A HGT Precision 6-speed sequential transmission, Tilton custom clutch and NISMO GT-R Pro 1.5 way differential help direct power to the wheels.
        

          Likewise, the suspension and steering were completely custom-built for Time Attack competition using NISMO racing components. A custom Brembo brake system, NISMO radiator and multiple oil, transmission and differential cooling systems were installed. RAYS Volk ZE40 Diamond Dark Gunmetal 18x11-inch aluminum-alloy wheels and Yokohama Advan A052 315/30R18 high performance tires complete the handling package.
        

          Inside, a single OMP HRC-R Carbon Air FIA race seat gives the driver a commanding position in front of the custom-fabricated instrument panel. A quick release steering wheel, NISMO
        
