
# Electronic Deals – November 6, 2019: Arris, Sony & More

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:58:38+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-arris-sony-nikon-sale-black-friday-deals.html)

Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day today is going to piss off your ISP. That's because you can save big on a new Arris modem and never have to pay that monthly modem rental fee again. This purchase will pay for itself within six months, in most cases. These also work with all ISPs as well, just make sure that you're getting the right one for your ISP.
Some of Sony's underrated headphones are getting a massive price drop in Amazon's Gold Box Deal of the Day today. Starting at just $38. That makes this a really great time to pick up a pair of headphones, especially where these are good for about half off of their regular price. We're talking about the WH-CH510 over-ear headphones and the WI-XB400 wireless earbuds.
Amazon is discounting a number of Nikon cameras and lenses right now, in its "Happy HoliDeals" event. Allowing you to save big on some great cameras on lenses. Including the Nikon D750 which is up to 15-percent off right now. There are some really good lenses on sale, like the Nikon 50mm f/1.8 lens, that is just $176 today – that's the same price as a used one!
Advertisement
This is probably the last time the Fire TV Stick 4K is going to be on sale before Black Friday, and it's unlikely to get much cheaper come Black Friday. You can save $10 off of it right now, picking it up for just $40. That is a really great price for the 4K model, and one of the cheaper 4K streaming sticks that you can buy. This also comes with the new Alexa voice remote, which now has volume buttons! So you can control things with Alexa through your TV now.
These deals are all available until midnight PST on the expiration date specified below. These prices are also as up-to-date as possible, but beware that prices will fluctuate throughout the day. For the latest deals from Amazon, you can check out their Deals page here.
