
# Liverpool Star Linked With Move To 'China Or US'

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:33:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/liverpool-star-linked-with-move-to-china-or-united-states/666684)

In recent years, a number of the biggest names in football have opted to end their careers in China or the United States, and one Liverpool star could follow suit at the end of the season.

        
          Read: The 10 Most Offside Players In EPL History
        
      
According to The Telegraph, Liverpool midfielder Adam Lallana is attracting interest from a number of clubs in China and the US, and could become the latest Premier League star to cash in on a move abroad.
The 31-year-old is out of contract with the Reds at the end of the current domestic campaign, and is unlikely to remain at the club for the long term, despite Liverpool reportedly preparing to offer him a new contract.
Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp was reluctant to add fuel to the speculation recently, and stressed that the most important thing now was that Lallana was fit and playing well for the club.

        Click through the gallery below to see 11 other players who moved to the US!
      
"I don't know exactly what will happen in May, for anybody by the way, but the best thing a footballer can do, when you have the opportunity, is play well and that's what Adam is doing," Klopp said.
"Now is the second time in a row, when he came on against (Manchester) United, he was good.
"After a long time he had with some injuries here and there, he is in outstanding shape physically. That's the most important thing for a career, and all the rest, we will see."

        
          Read: Pep Fires Dig At Liverpool's African Superstar
        
      
Lallana joined Liverpool from Southampton for a reported fee of £25 million (R479 million) in 2014, and has scored 22 goals in 164 appearances for the club since.
