
# Duterte vows to push for South China Sea code ASAP

Published at: **2019-11-04T01:42:23+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/04/duterte-vows-to-push-for-south-china-sea-code-asap/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
BANGKOK—President Duterte assured leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) that he will push for the conclusion of the negotiations on a Code of Conduct (COC) in the South China Sea as soon as possible.
During his intervention at the plenary session of the 35th Asean Summit, the President said the maritime row must be solved peacefully in accordance with international law, including the United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea (Unclos).
This position, the President said, was even more strengthened by the country’s legal victory in The Hague Permanent Court of Arbitration, invalidating China’s sweeping claims in the South China Sea.
“As Asean-China Country Coordinator, the Philippines will do its utmost part to conclude negtotiations on a Code of Conduct as soon as possible,” Duterte said in a statement.
The Philippines is the Country Coordinator for Asean-China Dialogue Relations until 2021.
“Notwithstanding the lack of enthusiasm by some external partners, I believe that we in Asean are one in the view that an effective and substantive COC will be good for the region,” he added.
He also called on Asean countries to use all of their influence, whether individually or collectively, “to persuade countries to exercise self-restraint and avoid actions that may further complicate the situation.”
The Chief Executive also warned Asean countries not to take sides as this would be a dangerous game to play, dragging countries into a vicious cycle of power balancing and security dilemmas. Such will also undo hard-won gains of peace and development for the people.
Presidential Spokesman Salvador S. Panelo also said in a separate statement that the President called the taking of sides as a “strategic mistake” committed by past leaderships of the Philippines.
Panelo said this is now being rectified through Duterte’s independent foreign policy.
Moreover, the Palace spokesman said Duterte mentioned at the plenary session that the freedom of navigation and overflight above the South China Sea should remain a priority of Asean.
While he said the 10-member state regional bloc has already come so far, the President encouraged Asean member-states to rise to the challenge, bearing in mind their shared destiny as one community.
“Let us build on the achievements of the past and make Asean even stronger to face the challenges of the present,” Duterte said. The President arrived in Thailand on Friday to participate in the 35th Asean Summit and Related Summits from November 2 to 4.
