
# North Delta crime beat, week of Oct. 20

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:44:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [North Delta Reporter](https://www.northdeltareporter.com/news/north-delta-crime-beat-week-of-oct-20-2/)


        The purpose of the crime beat is to educate and inform the public about some of the property crime trends occurring in North Delta and other files of interest. It is submitted weekly by the Delta Police Department. If you see anything occurring that you believe to be suspicious, call 911 for in progress crimes and emergencies or 604-946-4411 for other assistance.
      

        The following are some of the calls police responded to in the previous week:
      
• Oct. 20, 2:34 p.m., 11500-block 86th Ave.: Complainant reported that sometime overnight a female had walked onto his property and stolen a plant and pumpkin valued at $50 from his front door step. The female was observed riding a bicycle past the property and then getting off it to proceed onto the property. The complainant was advised to continue keeping lights on at night to prevent easy opportunity theft.
• Oct. 20, 2:59 p.m., 11300-block 84th Ave.: Complainant attended the North Delta Public Safety Building to report that a group of 12 teenagers were smoking marijuana at North Delta Community Park. Police attended the park but did not find any group of teenagers loitering in the park.
• Oct. 20, 5:00 p.m., 11800-block 83rd Ave.: Delta police responded to a report of ongoing construction noise. The complainant reported that the new owners of the above residence were throwing out drywall and other items into a large disposal bin in the driveway. The complainant was concerned for asbestos and that it was unsafe, and was also complaining about the noise from the renovations. Police attended and spoke with the homeowner and advised him of the city’s bylaws. The homeowner stopped working and said he would come back in the morning. Police advised the complainant to contact the City of Delta’s bylaw enforcement department on Monday in order to speak to staff during regular hours.
• Oct. 22, 5:29 p.m., 11600-block 82nd Ave.: Complainant reported a loose pitbull at the North Delta Secondary track park that was jumping on other dogs and humans. Police and Delta bylaw enforcement attended the park and were able to leash the dog without issue. As police were comforting the dog, the owner appeared on scene in her vehicle. The owner was emotional and advised that her dog had run away. The owner showed family pictures with dog to confirm ownership. The owner was given a bylaw ticket for failing to have a valid dog permit.
• Oct. 23, 1:19 p.m., 6500-block Woodglen St.: Complainant reported that she had recently been asked to obtain a Delta police file number with regards to a fraudulent credit card that had been registered in her name. Police attended the residence and learned that an unknown person had obtained a credit card through a Canadian bank and had racked up approximately $8,500 in charges. The complainant informed police that she was in the process of having the charges expunged. The complainant was advised to contact Equifax and notify them of her identity theft concerns. The complainant was provided a file number as requested.
• Oct. 23, 5:19 p.m., 7000-block Highway 91: Complainant contacted Delta police to report three deer in the area. The complainant was concerned that the deer may try to cross the highway. Upon arrival, no deer were located on either side of the highway.
• Oct. 23, 10:30 a.m., 6700-block Wade Rd.: Complainant called police to report that the front driver-side window of their vehicle was broken and there were dents within the driver side and passenger side door. The complainant believes that it happened overnight. No access was gained and nothing was stolen. Total value of damage was $2,500.
• Oct. 25, 10:26 p.m., 8600-block 120th St.: Complainant reported a noise complaint at a restaurant. Police attended and spoke with the property representative, who advised that the party was ending at 11:30pm. The representative agreed to turn the music down and was warned of a violation ticket. Police received another call around 12:18 a.m. Police were unable to attend at that time due to priority files. Police attended later in the night and found the party was finished and no noise was coming from the business.
• Oct. 27: Throughout the evening, Delta police received a significant number of complaints about fireworks and noisy parties. Please remember if you call 911 in error or change your mind about the reason you called, please stay on the line and confirm to call takers that you are safe and don’t require help. On a busy night police resources can become even more stretched when police need to attend homes to check on the well-being of people who hung up when calling 911.
