
# Puppy Dies From Heart Attack During Firework Display

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:32:16+00:00**

Author: **George Pavlou**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/animals/puppy-dies-from-heart-attack-during-firework-display/)


        In an absolute tragedy, an 18-week-old puppy has died from a heart attack due to the loud noises caused by fireworks.
      
Advertisements
Molly, a young terrier, was only 18 weeks old when fireworks and loud bangs in the Wombwell and lower Darfield area in South Yorkshire caused a fright that would result in her untimely and tragic death.
A woman called Susan Paterson shared the devastatingly sad news in a Public Facebook group called Wombwell Wise, and urged people to ‘please think of the animals’.
Advertisements
She then urged people to follow the FAB Anti random Firework page and sign their petition calling for a full review of laws around fireworks in order to protect animals from injury and distress.

        Julie Doorne, who began the petition, wrote:
      
It is for that reason Julie is calling for an urgent review of firework regulations to restrict use and prevent needless animal suffering.
The petition, which has nearly 500,000 signatures already, states around 40% of all dogs are fearful of loud noises (RSPCA stats say 45%), like those that come from fireworks, meaning thousands of animals’ lives are ‘made a misery by random fireworks’.
Advertisements
It also says dogs, cats, other pets, livestock and wildlife are all affected, and that the RSPCA have had frequent reports of horses harming themselves by crashing into stable doors and fences because ‘these poor animals don’t understand what is causing the loud bangs and bright flashes’.

        The petition calls for the 2003 Fireworks Act and the 2004 Fireworks Regulations should now encompass:
      
Since a debate in parliament in January 2018 on the issue of firework safety, there has been little movement from the UK Government on the issue.
Advertisements

        Julie signed off the petition saying:
      
