
# India vs Bangladesh: The most memorable T20I encounters

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:38:36+00:00**

Author: **Manish Kumar**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/cricket/bangladesh-in-india/india-vs-bangladesh-the-most-memorable-t20i-encounters/articleshow/71846739.cms)

NEW DELHI: The rivalry between India and Bangladesh has gone up a few notches over the years, thanks to the theatrics displayed by their players and fans alike. Though Bangladesh have lost all eight T20 international matches they have played against India so far, there have been some rather memorable encounters and close finishes.

        Overall T20I Head to Head:Played: 8Won by India: 8Won by Bangladesh: 0
      

        2014 World T20 match, Dhaka: India won by 8 wickets
      
Bangladesh was the host nation of the 2014 World T20, so the expectations were high and so was the pressure when they played India in their Group 2 clash at the Shere Bangla National Stadium on March 28, 2014. Put into bat, Bangladesh were three down by the fifth over before Anamul Haque (40) and Mushfiqur Rahim (24) steadied the ship. Mahmudullah (33*) provided the late flourish to take Bangladesh to 138/7 in their 20 overs. For India, Amit Mishra took 3 wickets but it was the double-wicket blow off successive deliveries by Ravichandran Ashwin that derailed the hosts' run charge.
The Indian run chase got off to a bad start as Shikhar Dhawan fell in the third over, but his opening partner Rohit Sharma smashed a 44-ball 56 and his 100-run partnership with Virat Kohli (57*) ensured that there were no more wobbles in the Indian run chase. After the dismissal of Rohit, things got a little tight in the end for India with 22 runs needed off the last four overs. But Indian captain MS Dhoni, playing his role of finisher to perfection, struck Al-Amin Hossain for a four and a six in the 17th over to ease nerves. Mashrafe Mortaza bowled a good 18th over, conceding just 4 runs. Ziaur Rahman was brought back in the attack with India needing 6 runs off the last two overs. Dhoni hit the third delivery of the over for a six to seal an eight-wicket victory and a spot in the semi-finals.

        Asia Cup Final, 2016 in Dhaka: India won by 8 wickets
      
Bangladesh have reached the Asia Cup final thrice, but on all occasions, they have failed to get their hands on the winners' trophy. The 2016 edition was the first time that the tournament was being held in the T20 format and it was held in Bangladesh, so hopes of the home fans were high. However, standing in their way were the mighty Indians, who had registered six T20I wins on the trot. The final on March 6, 2016 was reduced to 15 overs due to rain and Bangladesh were put into bat by Dhoni at the Shere Bangla National Stadium. Mahmudullah (33*) and Sabbir Rahman (32*) took Bangladesh to 120/5, with all Indian bowlers, except Hardik Pandya, taking a wicket each.
Rohit registered a rare failure against Bangladesh, but this time Dhawan got going, slamming a 44-ball 60, with a six and nine fours in his knock. Dhawan put up a 94-run stand for the second wicket with Virat Kohli, before falling to Taskin Ahmed. The Kohli-Dhoni combination again proved too much for the Bangladeshis. Kohli, who hit five fours in his 28-ball 41-run unbeaten knock, enhanced his reputation of being the 'chase master' and Dhoni again finished off proceedings in style. With 19 runs required off the last two overs, Dhoni hit the first delivery from Al-Amin Hossain over the mid-wicket fence to silence the Dhaka crowd. After a single off the next delivery, three runs were conceded off the third ball of the over, as a direct hit on the stumps resulted in an overthrow. Dhoni then sent the next ball flying over the covers for a four and the next ball - a full toss - was dispatched over the mid-wicket fence for his 300th international six as India won the Asia Cup title for the sixth time.

        2016 World T20 match, in Bengaluru: India won by 1 run
      
This one was as thrilling, nerve-wrecking and nail-biting as a cricket match can get. The group match on March 23, 2016 at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bengaluru will go down in history as one of the closest matches ever played. Bangladesh won the toss and chose to chase. Suresh Raina top scored for India with 30 as the hosts were restricted to 146/7, with Al-Amin Hossain and Mustafizur Rahman taking 2 wickets each.
Bangladesh were in the game till the last over, or effectively till the last ball. But premature celebrations and pursuit of glorious shots did them in, showing their lack of maturity. 11 runs were needed off the last over bowled by Hardik Pandya and he conceded a single off the first delivery. Mushfiqur Rahim hit the second delivery through the covers for four and when he scooped the next delivery to the fine leg fence for another four, the wicketkeeper-batsman pumped his fists and swung his bat letting out a victory cry. With 2 runs needed off 3 balls, Mushfiqur (11) went for a glorious shot and pulled a slower delivery from Pandya straight to Dhawan at deep mid-wicket. The batsmen had crossed when the ball was in the air and that meant with 2 runs needed off 2 balls, Mahmudullah, who already had his eye in, would be on strike. But before the next delivery, Dhoni moved India's best fielder Ravindra Jadeja from the covers to deep mid-wicket. And Mahmudullah obliged. Like Mushfiqur, Mahmudullah too went for a glorious shot and hit a full toss to deep mid-wicket where Jadeja ran in to pull off a brilliant catch to stun the Bangladeshi fans. Two deliveries gone and two wickets lost and the equation still stood at Bangladesh needing 2 runs, but now off just one delivery. Dhoni pulled off his right glove before the last ball was bowled, anticipating the batsmen missing the delivery and trying to run for a bye and that's exactly what happened. Shuvagata Hom swung his bat hard but missed the last delivery just outside the off-stump. Mustafizur Rahman ran from the bowler's end for a bye that would seal the match in Bangladesh's favour. But Dhoni collected the ball, however he didn't throw the ball at the stumps. Instead he decided to run up to the stumps and dislodge the bails to run out Mustafizur by a whisker. That triggered wild celebrations from the Indian players and the Bengaluru crowd. Dhoni's quick thinking and sharp skills behind the stumps helped India won by 1 run. Bangladesh fell agonisingly short to learn an important lesson, it's not over till it's over.

        2018 Nidahas Tri-Series Final in Colombo: India won by 4 wickets
      
With both MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli opting to rest, India were led by Rohit Sharma in the Nidahas Twenty20 Tri-Series, that featured hosts Sri Lanka, India and Bangladesh. India and Bangladesh reached the final with the latter's victory against Sri Lanka being marred by ugly scenes, arguments and confrontations between the players. So it was understandable that the crowd at the R Premadasa Stadium in Colombo on March 18, 2018 was supporting the Indians. Put in by India, Bangladesh put up a challenging total of 166/8, with Sabbir Rahman top scoring with a 50-ball 77. Yuzvendra Chahal took 3 wickets and Jaydev Unadkat scalped two.
Rohit top scored for India with a 42-ball 56 but India kept losing wickets regularly. When Mustafizur Rahman dismissed Manish Pandey (28), India were left needing 34 runs off the last two overs. And in walked Dinesh Karthik. On that day, India discovered a new finisher, a new hero. Karthik smashed the first delivery from Rubel Hossain for a six, the second for a four and the third for another six. With the fourth delivery being a dot ball, Karthik stole two runs off the penultimate delivery and then hit the last ball of the over for a four to bring the equation down to 12 runs needed off six balls. With the first ball of the last over bowled by Soumya Sarkar being a wide, Vijay Shankar managed to take a single off the second ball. Karthik too took a single off the next delivery. With India needing 9 runs off 3 balls, Shankar hit a four but was dismissed off the next delivery but as the batsmen crossed while the ball was in the air, it meant that Karthik was to face the last ball of the match with India needing five runs to win. Sarkar ran in with the Colombo crowd on its feet, the Indian and Bangladesh dugouts simmering with excitement, no one in the stadium was sitting. Bangladesh were confident they had the match wrapped up, but Karthik, calmly and nonchalantly, lofted the last delivery over the covers for a six to complete an emphatic and memorable four-wicket Indian victory that also helped them clinch the title.
