
# Rugby World Cup Final: England dream dies in 32-12 battering by South Africa

Published at: **2019-11-03T03:03:55+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/rugby-world-cup-final-england-20800489?utm_source=twitter.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=sharebar)

George Ford staggered away from England’s Rugby World Cup final horror show and admitted: “We were nowhere near good enough.”
Favourites to repeat their hammering of the All Blacks and lift the Webb Ellis trophy, England instead collided head on with the unstoppable power of South Africa and were marmalised.
Wales boss Warren Gatland had wondered whether they had played their final in the semi-final and so it proved. But this was worse than could have been imagined as England arrived late after being caught in traffic.
 
They lost star prop Kyle Sinckler in the third minute after a freak collision with Maro Itoje’s shoulder as the pair tackled the same opponent. And they were then humiliated at scrum time - penalised on six occasions by French ref Jerome Garces as a Springbok pack inspired by the ‘Beast’, prop Tendai Mtawarira, ploughed them into the Yokohama turf.
Fly-half Ford said: “You get to a final and you’re not guaranteed anything. All it is is an opportunity. We wanted to finish it off today but we were nowhere near good enough to do that. South Africa were the better team on the day by a good distance.”
The Springboks became the first team to win the World Cup after losing a pool game and in so doing scored their first tries in three finals, through wingers Makazole Mapimpi and Cheslin Kolbe.
England had known what was coming but knowing and dealing with the sort of uplift in physical brutality brought by the Boks are two different things.
Losing tighthead Sinckler so early set the tone for a horrible first half. South Africa had made no secret that they would come route one with white-hot ferocity and in 22-point fly-half Handre Pollard possessed a goal kicker able to take full advantage.
“England were taken apart in many, many areas,” said 2003 winner Matt Dawson. “They looked rattled for the first time in long time. I don't know where this South Africa performance has come from. It's come from the gods.”
 
Beforehand there were mutterings that the Boks felt disrespected by comments from English former players Dawson, Stuart Barnes and David Flatman.
Dawson claimed a combined XV would not feature a single Springbok, Barnes wrote that their captain Siya Kolisi should be benched and Flatman tweeted: “I just do not see how SA win this final. Just don’t think there’s a way”.
It became clear soon enough as Sinckler departed in a daze to be replaced by Dan Cole and England’s scrum fell apart. It steadied somewhat with the arrival of Joe Marler but too late to turn the tide.
 
Asked afterwards how difficult it is to change a referee's view on scrum time, Marler was provocatively blunt.
"Yeah, really difficult,” he said, "because it is quite difficult to hide a significant amount of money in your shorts and socks to maybe bung him and say, ‘Bonjour, Ca va? You do me favour, I do you favour?'
"You’d like to think every scrum is refereed independently from the last, but that’s not the reality. As soon as you paint a picture, or give a perception early doors, that’s always in the back of the referee’s mind. Fair play to the South African pack, they did a great job."
The Boks had had a day less to prepare but no team has ever beaten the All Blacks at a World Cup and gone on to win the tournament and from minute one it was clear that achievement had drained England.
 
As they tried to force the game they pushed too hard and South Africa picked them off brilliantly; Mapimpi combining with Lukhanyo Am to score on the left, before Kolbe danced around Farrell on the right.
Kolisi became the first black captain to lift a Rugby World Cup, sparking wild celebrations across South Africa and prompting Boks legend Bryan Habana to nominate him as a future leader of the country.
Another day perhaps. For now there is a famous triumph to savour. One which will haunt Eddie Jones and his players for some time to come.

         
      
England - Pens: Farrell 4.
South Africa - Tries: Kolbe, Mapimpi. Cons: Pollard 2. Pens: Pollard 6.
