
# Chanel West Coast’s ‘Sharon Stoned’ At Center Of Lawsuit From… Sharon Stone

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Legal Entertainment**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/legalentertainment/2019/11/06/chanel-west-coasts-sharon-stoned-at-center-of-lawsuit-from-sharon-stone/)

Contributing author: Bryan Sullivan
Award winning actress Sharon Stone is suing rapper Chanel West Coast (real name Chelsea Dudley) for the rapper’s use of the Basic Instinct star’s name in the 2018 song “Sharon Stoned.” In asserting causes of action for 1) Violation of the Lanham Act, 2) Violation of the California Common Law Right of Publicity and 3) Violation of the California Statutory Right of Publicity, Stone alleges, “Challenged to achieve success as a rap artist, on information and belief, Defendant Dudley has sought to enhance her stature as a rapper by invoking and trading on the celebrity status and fame of others.” Stone further alleges that, in the song, “Defendant Dudley gratuitously repeats the name ‘Sharon Stone’ thirty-three times and the name ‘Sharon’ ninety-nine times.” So, does the use of Stone’s name violate any laws?
It is well accepted that celebrities have certain rights in the use of their name, voice, likeness, etc. And, in California, Civil Code section 3344 provides that “[a]ny person who knowingly uses another’s name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness, in any manner, on or in products, merchandise, or goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise, goods or services, without such person's prior consent, or, in the case of a minor, the prior consent of his parent or legal guardian, shall be liable for any damages sustained by the person or persons injured as a result thereof.” However, the statute also provides that “[i]t shall be a question of fact whether or not the use of the person’s name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness was so directly connected with the commercial sponsorship or with the paid advertising as to constitute a use for which consent is required[.]” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3344(e))
Such rights also exist under federal law. Specifically, Section 43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1125(a) covers claims of falsely implying the endorsement of a business, product, or service by a celebrity or other person. Like the California statute, the Lanham Act also requires proof that the unauthorized use of the person’s identity is likely to confuse, deceive, or mislead consumers into falsely believing that the person approves, sponsors, or endorses the goods or services of the business at issue.
The question thus appears to turn on whether Chanel West Coast’s use of Sharon Stone’s name ad nauseum in the song implies that the rapper is trading on Stone’s past successes. Clearly, Stone believes it is. Gary A. Hecker of Munck Wilson Mandala, legal counsel for Stone, provided the following comment: “Sharon Stone’s publicity rights are valuable, and when they are violated she will enforce them.” Chanel West Coast was unavailable for comment.
Hecker also noted that he had represented Kim Kardashian West in a suit against Old Navy over her name and likeness, as well as actor Ray Liotta in his own right of publicity lawsuit against skin care company Nerium. However, those lawsuits were directly over the use of a celebrity’s name and image in conjunction with the sale of a product as opposed to using it in a song, which implicates the First Amendment. The ruling in the famous 1979 case Guglielmi v. Spelling-Goldberg Productions, in essence, said that entertainment is non-commercial speech entitled to full First Amendment protection. Furthermore, the “Sharon Stoned” video re-enacts one of Sharon Stone’s famous scenes from the movie Basic Instinct so Chanel West Coast could also argue that the re-enactment is a parody, also protected by the First Amendment. But, the First Amendment is not absolute as recognized by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes when he wrote, “You can’t yell fire in a crowded theater.” Similarly, you can’t try to profit off of someone’s image without consent. 
So, the issue comes down to does Chanel West Coast’s First Amendment rights trump Sharon Stone’s right of publicity rights. If a court/jury finds that Chanel West Coast used Sharon Stone’s name to sell her song, then the First Amendment is no protection. In an apparent response to the lawsuit, Chanel West Coast sent out the following tweet:
I’m not sure who will win, but this lawsuit is not “crazy” as described by Chanel West Coast in the tweet and she better get ready to defend herself because Sharon Stone is clearly very angry about the song and is coming after her. 
