
# Alex Danvers Is in Trouble in New Supergirl Episode 5.06 Promo

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:07:13+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/470947-alex-danvers-is-in-trouble-in-new-supergirl-episode-5-06-promo)

A new promo for the upcoming Supergirl Episode 5.06 has made its way to the web, featuring a new villain who is keeping the DEO in check. The episode will air on November 10. The official synopsis reads as follows:
While a new villain is under arrest at the DEO, Supergirl (Melissa Benoist) uses him to try and understand who is responsible for the recent attacks. Meanwhile, Andrea (Julie Gonzalo) and Lena (Katie McGrath) think back on their tumultuous past.
Shannon Kohli directed the episode written by Dana Horgan & Nicki Holcomb.
Supergirl stars Melissa Benoist (Glee) as Kara Danvers/Supergirl. Mehcad Brooks plays James Olsen, with Chyler Leigh (Grey’s Anatomy) as Alex Danvers, as well as Jeremy Jordan as Winslow ‘Winn’ Schott, and Katie McGrath (Merlin) as Lena Luthor. The show also stars Jess Rath as Brainiac 5, and David Harewood as Hank Henshaw/J’onn J’onnz.
Based on the DC characters created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, the series boasts executive producers Greg Berlanti, Sarah Schechter, as well as Robert Rovner, and Jessica Queller. Moreover, Berlanti Productions, in association with Warner Bros. Television, produces Supergirl.
Check out the new Supergirl episode 5.o6 promo below. Then let us know what you think in comments!
