
# Bitcoin Demand in Economically Volatile Countries Reaches Record Highs

Published at: **2019-11-01T06:45:48+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/01/bitcoin-demand-in-economically-volatile-countries-reaches-record-highs/)

Nothing drives up demand for Bitcoin more than economic and political uncertainty. Well maybe a large dose of China initiated FOMO, but fundamentally BTC acts as a solid hedge against failing fiat and economic policy. This year has not been one to remember for a number of nations, and that has clearly been reflected in their demand for digital assets.
The economies and local currencies of two South American countries have been battered this year. According to reports, Venezuela lost almost a quarter of its gross domestic product (GDP) in the first three months of 2019. The oil sector, which is the source of over 90% of the country’s export earnings contracted 20% and continues to get hit by power shortages.
US economic sanctions and hyperinflation have resulted in extreme reforms including pegging the country’s currency to the crypto Petro and initiatives to further its adoption. Epic devaluation of the Bolivar has significantly increased the demand for Bitcoin in Venezuela this year.
While in Argentina political tensions have risen in the lead up to presidential transition. The local currency has also been massively devalued and extreme capital control measures have been introduced in an attempt to stem the outflow and restrict what people can do with their money. Likewise, Bitcoin demand on OTC trading has skyrocketed in Argentina.
Trader and analyst ‘CryptoWelson’ has been looking at the figures noting that demand has risen to record levels in these two, plus a number of other countries.
