
# Jeremy Corbyn's general election journey to Brexit clarity - up to a point

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/jeremy-corbyns-general-election-journey-20813580)

Morning,
Jeremy Corbyn has been repeatedly criticised for his lack of clarity on Brexit.
For a long time, that criticism was completely justified – the only thing that was clear about his position was that he was going out of his way not to adopt one.
But gradually he has been guided towards a stance that at least goes some way towards giving clarity.
Labour's current offer is to renegotiate a Withdrawal Agreement – that'll be the third deal with Brussels – within three months of getting elected.
That new pact will then be put to a referendum.
This is where it becomes tricky for Corbyn; he has steadfastly refused to say if in that referendum campaign he would urge voters to back Leave with his deal or if he would fight for Remain.
Many Shadow Cabinet big-hitters – including key allies of the leadership – have said they will battle for Remain come what may.
(Also, as one Labour MP pointed out to me recently, it's totally fair to say that in 2016 voters did not know what sort of Brexit they were voting for – but now they know what the options are, any second referendum should be on a deal or no-deal departure, given the decision to Leave has already been taken. But that's not going to happen.)
Today, Corbyn will come under huge pressure to say what he will do in that campaign .
Do not expect him to yield.
The Labour leader is giving a speech in Harlow, Essex – a town that voted Leave by 68% to 32%, and where the Conservatives enjoy a 7,000 majority.
Expect the speech to focus on Labour's attack line – repeatedly denied by the the Tories – that Boris Johnson wants to “hijack” Brexit to allow US drugs firms into the NHS.
We have explored the cosy links between Donald Trump's administration and Big Pharma in a special report today .
Corbyn will also accuse the Prime Minister of wanting to “unleash Thatcherism on steroids”.

        On today:
      
9.30am – Boris Johnson hosts Cabinet in No10
10am – Civil servants are kicked out so the Prime Minister can host a Political Cabinet
10am – Jeremy Corbyn delivers Brexit speech in Harlow, Essex
10am – Jo Swinson launches the Lib Dem campaign in Westminster
11am – Brexit Party leader Nigel Farage hits the campaign trail in Bolsover, Notts
Midnight – Parliament is dissolved so the election campaign can officially get underway

        What I am reading:
      

        Stephen Bush on what the election of Sir Lindsay Hoyle as Speaker means for Parliament
      
* If you would like the newsletter sent to your inbox sign up here : http://www.mirror.co.uk/newsletters/politics-newsletter/
