
# Vin Diesel sends sweet message to Paul Walker’s daughter on her 21st birthday

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:47:59+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/vin-diesel-sends-sweet-message-20822075)

Vin Diesel made sure to dedicate a special birthday Instagram post to the daughter of his late friend Paul Walker on Tuesday.
The Fast and Furious actor, 52, posted a sweet snap of Paul's 21-year-old daughter Meadow as he gave fans a glimpse of their heartwarming bond.
The birthday girl was pictured smiling with Vin's four-year-old daughter, Pauline, who the actor named after his late friend and co-star Paul.
He wrote a loving caption alongside the photo as he wished Meadow a happy birthday.
Vin wrote: "I could say that I am so proud of the person you are becoming... but the truth is I have always been proud of you.
“Happy Birthday Meadow! I know it’s your 21st and you wanted to go big in Japan, but the family has a cake waiting for you when you get home, so hurry.
"Love you kid. Uncle Vin."
Meadow, who was just 15 when her famous father died in a fiery car crash in 2013, thanked her 'uncle' for the sweet birthday post.
She replied: "Thank you so much. I can’t wait to see you soon. And my little angels. Love you."
Diesel has continued to play a huge part in Meadow's life after starring in the Fast and Furious franchise with late actor Paul.
Meadow now continues her father's legacy and devotes her time to the Paul Walker foundation, which she launched in September 2015 following her father's death two years earlier.
The foundation promotes ocean and wildlife conservation.
This past September, Vin shared a touching message to Instagram to honour Paul on what would have been his 46th birthday as he revealed that Meadow regularly checks up on him.
The legendary actor wrote: "I reflect on how lucky I am to call you my brother. The tears never go away, but they change... from that of mourning to that of grace.
We only hope to make you proud. Speaking of which, guess what message I woke up to... your daughter. Meadow sending me love on this day."
He added: "Wow, she knows me so well. She has your heart. Happy birthday... it’s amazing, but somehow you continue to make the world a better place."
Paul Walker died in November 2013 when the Porsche Carrera GT he was riding in spun out of control, struck three trees and burst into flames on a street in California.
The actor, aged 40 when he died, had starred in films including She's All That and Varsity Blues, but was best known for appearing as Brian O'Conner in The Fast And The Furious franchise.
Following Paul's death his brother Cody stepped in to help finish filming of Furious 7.
Producers digitally superimposed Paul's face onto Cody's body, and the movie's ending features a modified scene in which the character drives off into the sunset.
His character is still alive in the Fast And The Furious universe and was mentioned twice in 2017's The Fate Of The Furious.
