
# Cheap SIM deal with 45GB of data is winning Black Friday

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:37:15+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Hurrell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/whats-on/shopping/cheap-sim-deal-45gb-data-17212078)

A SIM deal offering 45GB of data for just £15 is undercutting the major mobile networks as Black Friday gets near.
Smarty, which uses the Three network, is selling 45GB of data for the price of 8GB and has also thrown in a host of extras to entice customers to switch from the likes of O2, Vodafone, GiffGaff and Three before Black Friday.
It says if users do not use all of the data each month they will cut up to £10 from the next month's bill, meaning users could be paying just £5 for the SIM.
The is a one-month contract so can be stopped at any time and the 45GB data limit will be in place for the first 12 months of use - just in time for Black Friday 2020.
The contract also comes with unlimited calls and texts and is available online here.
 
But how does it stack up against the rest of the industry's Black Friday SIM deals ?
The answer is surprisingly well. Three is currently offering unlimited data for £20 a month but that deal ties you in to a 24-month contract. Unlimited data for 12 months is £21 per month. Even the hefty 30GB deal is priced at £18 a month.
Three has been known to drop the price of an unlimited SIM to as little as £10 and with Black Friday coming up users may want to hold off to get an equivalent deal.
Vodafone's unlimited SIM is £23 per month , while 20GB of data is £20 per month. EE is selling 50GB of data for £24 per month and 25GB of data for £20 per month.
The major phone companies cannot compete with Smarty at the moment but should offer cheaper deals for Black Friday.
However, BT is offering a 30GB deal for £17. The deal also comes with BT Sport on mobile, extra speed 4G and a free JBL speaker worth £119. It is also offering a 100GB version for £20 a month and a 20GB version for just £14 a month with the speaker freebie and BT Sport.
The deals are even cheaper if you already have BT Broadband and it could be the main competitor to the Smarty deal.
