
# Three ways Chelsea let two set pieces decide the tie against Man United

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:30:32+00:00**

Author: **George Perry**

Original: [The Pride of London](https://theprideoflondon.com/2019/11/01/chelsea-three-ways-set-pieces-decide-man-united/)

Neither Chelsea nor Manchester United played like a winning side on Wednesday at Stamford Bridge. On the balance of play, it’s little surprise Chelsea scored the only goal from open play. It’s equally unsurprising that two set pieces, each ridiculous in their own way – one textbook ridiculous, one sublimely so – gave United the win. Let’s take a look at some reasons why and how it came to that.
Manchester United sacked Jose Mourinho because they were tired of his defensive-oriented structures and game plans, regarding deep, compact defensive blocks of eight players as anathema to United’s culture and philosophy. Ole Gunnar Solksjaer either didn’t get the memo, or is so over earning style points he’s willing to grind out a few victories along the way.
The Red Devils defended in a 5-3-2 featuring three centrebacks, with the wing-backs just barely wide of their penalty area and the line of three midfielders only a few yards ahead of the defensive line.
Chelsea’s midfielders and wingers were not making the runs of the ball necessary to open pockets of space or – in conjunction with the full-backs – tug United’s block one way and another across the pitch. See the Newcastle game for an example of how the Blues have done this to gradually stretch the block and create overloads that leave an open man.
Mason Mount has been the most productive player for these runs. He is always either moving between the lines or attacking the defensive line, with or without the ball. Even against a compact block, this movement can open passing and dribbling lanes, or give the striker a chance to run off his centrebacks into a brief pocket of space between them or to a post.
Neither Christian Pulisic, Callum Hudson-Odoi nor any of Chelsea’s three midfielders moved as Mount does. Pulisic, Hudson-Odoi and Billy Gilmour were as stationary between the lines as they were standing on the lines hoping to run onto a ball coming through.
Gilmour is not used to playing that high, so he at least has that mitigating his uncertainty in those positions. Hudson-Odoi is an expert at finding separation as the ball is coming towards him, but he did not work on his own or with his teammates to create the space that would enable a teammate passing to him. Pulisic, of the group of them, probably should have known better since he is at the intersection of attacking midfielder and winger.
At times Chelsea were in a similar position as last season, wishing their opponents would come out and be compliant. The attempts to cycle the ball vertically through the centre of the pitch did nothing to attract United out of their block, and the futility of that did nothing to incite the Blues’ forwards and midfielders to pull United of their lines themselves.
By increasing the pace of play in the second half, Chelsea were able to create a bit more space, but United helped matters out by shifting out of their 5-3-2 defensive shape. Chelsea need other players to move as Mason Mount does between the line, or other options to distort a compact block.
