
# Man Utd fans respond to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer handing Jesse Lingard a note

Published at: **2019-11-02T22:07:05+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-fans-respond-ole-20799526)

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer handed Jesse Lingard a note during Manchester United's defeat by Bournemouth - and fans are joking about what was written on it.
Lingard came off the bench for the Red Devils as they went for broke in the second half against the Cherries at the Vitality Stadium, but to no avail.
It is not known what was written on the note passed onto the winger but United supporters have made some humorous suggestions on social media.
"I don't really know what I am doing," one supporter joked was written on the note, while another suggested it was a shopping list.
Josh King netted the only goal of the game as Manchester United were beaten for a fourth time in the Premier League this season.
After the match, Solskjaer said: "Mason Greenwood was unlucky when he hit the post, I saw him scoring those chances more than missing them, but he will come good.
"I thought Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial defended very well against them, but in games like this one it is so important get the first goal and they did it."
Harry Maguire added on MUTV: "[We are] disappointed. We conceded at an awful time at a stage where we started the game really well.
"The first 20 minutes we were well on top, we have got to score in that period, with numerous chances.
"The quality in the final third wasn't good enough to create a real clear cut chance, then they came into the game at the end of the first-half and it is an awful time to concede just before half-time, it is probably the worst."
