
# Arsenal board's 'four points of consideration' before making Unai Emery sack decision

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:48:07+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-boards-four-points-consideration-20815166)

The Arsenal board has extracted four positives from Unai Emery's time in charge, which could save him from the sack, according to reports.
Emery took over from Arsene Wenger after 22 years in 2018, and was tasked with returning the Gunners to the Champions League.
The Spaniard failed in his task in his first full season, as the Gunners finished just outside the top four places in fifth and were beaten in the Europa League final by Chelsea.
This season things appear to have regressed slightly under Emery, with Arsenal winning just two of their past nine fixtures in the Premier League.
Emery is under pressure to turn things around and other managers, including Jose Mourinho, have been linked with his job in recent weeks.
The Gunners board is in no rush to sack the Spaniard, and according to the Evening Standard, have taken four things into consideration.
Firstly, Arsenal do not want to become a 'hire and fire' club like Manchester United and Chelsea, and would rather back their current boss.
Secondly, Emery impressed by reaching the final of the Europa League in his first season, despite Arsenal not coming away with the result they wanted.
Thirdly, Emery has done a good job integrating the young players at the club, and is getting the best out of Matteo Guendouzi, Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli.
And finally, the Spaniard appears to have found a way of getting Pierre-Eemerick Aubameyang firing on all cylinders.
All of these things appear to be going in Emery's favour at the moment, with the board acknowledging these positives and viewing them as progess.
