
# Ciro Immobile hits 100th Lazio goal as Italians warm up for Celtic with landmark win

Published at: **2019-11-03T21:44:33+00:00**

Author: **Gabriel McKay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ciro-immobile-hits-100th-lazio-20804032)

Ciro Immobile scored his 100th goal for Lazio as Simone Inzaghi's side beat Milan at San Siro for the first time in 30 years.
The Roman side take on Celtic in the Europa League on Thursday and their place in the competition is on the line, with defeat meaning elimination for the Aquile .
Attention had to be on Serie A duty tonight though, with Lazio aiming to qualify for the Champions League this season.
Coach Simone Inzaghi named his strongest XI for the game, with Ciro Immobile and Joaquin Correa up-front supported by Luis Alberto in a familiar 3-4-1-2 formation.
Immobile had a chance to open the scoring after five minutes. Lucas Paqueta lost possession in midfield and allowed a Lazio break but Gianluigi Donnarumma got down quickly to deny the Italian international.
Tomas Strakosha was guilty of sloppy possession of his own, the goalkeeper kicking it straight to Piatek, but Francesco Acerbi got across quickly to spare his team-mate's blushes.
Paqueta should have put Milan 1-0 up after being cleverly played in by Samu Castillejo but he didn't catch his shot properly and Strakosha made the save.
The visitors immediately went up the park and had a golden chance of their own but Immobile's whipped finish cannoned off the crossbar.
He didn't have to wait long for his 100th goal for the Biancocelesti .
Manuel Lazzari was afforded too much space to get his cross in, and Immobile timed his run well to get across his man and bullet a header into the net.
The lead didn't last long though, with the ball cannoning off the chest of Bastos and into his own net.
The Rossoneri began to assert themselves in the second half, and Inzaghi gave an indication of just how seriously he'll be taking the Celtic game.
With half an hour to play, and the score still at 1-1, the Lazio coach withdrew both Immobile and Milinkovic-Savic - a clear indication that they'll be unleashed on Neil Lennon 's men.
Despite the loss of arguably their two best players the visitors began to take the ascendancy once more, and they grabbed a winner with seven minutes to play.
It was a move which started all the way at the other end of the pitch, with Lazzari keeping it in on how own byeline.
After some neat interplay between the defenders the ball was launched long for Correa, who got up above Theo Hernandez to knock it down.
Luis Alberto picked it up between the lines and with the Milan defence wide open he returned it to Correa.
The Argentine isn't always decisive in front of goal but his finish was unerring and he handed Lazio a first win over Milan at San Siro for 30 years, with Inzaghi joining his players in the celebration.
