
# 19 senators sign report vs ninja cops, endorse PNP reforms

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:16:25+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/19-senators-sign-report-vs-ninja-cops-endorse-pnp-reforms/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
SENATE probers, after conducting an inquiry into so-called ninja cops linked to the alleged recycling of seized illegal drugs and their resale in the streets, pressed for major reforms in the Philippine National Police, starting with “strengthening” the PNP’s Internal Affairs Service (IAS) tasked to go after wayward policemen.
“Make IAS a truly independent institution, not within the PNP, not within the Department of the Interior and Local Government  [DILG],” was high among the seven-point recommentations submitted by the investigating Blue Ribbon Committee chaired by Sen. Richard Gordon. “We are looking at creating a new section in the Department of Justice or a new office within the Ombudsman for the Military and Police,” Gordon said.
What they have in mind, he indicated, is “an independent office for police conduct, like in the UK [United Kingdom] to handle these cases exclusively.”
The investigating commitee also proposed that Congress amend the Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002, to tap “persons of good repute [retired judges, lawyers, teachers, etc.]” to monitor if the procedures on chain of custody and drug buy bust were followed.
It also endorsed the suspension or dismissal of rogue policemen, not their mere reassignment to other posts, and the confiscation of their service firearms and badges, These are cops who have been dismissed or suspended or facing criminal-administrative charges.  A shorter review period for the administrative cases filed against rogue policemen is also proposed.
The panel also pressed for the creation of a training program that will conduct mandatory training “on values, character formation and leadership for all policemen” in order to professionalize the police force in all levels.
In addition, the committtee recommended that police officers should have four-year college course, though not necessarily taken from the Philippine National Police Academy, even as it also recommended that the PNPA “focus on specific after-collegiate training [boot camp 27 weeks], as well as specialized training in forensics, in IT crimes, white collar crimes, investigation techniques.”
