
# Fenimore Art Museum In Cooperstown, New York Shines Spotlight On Women Of Abstract Expressionism

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chadd Scott**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/chaddscott/2019/11/06/fenimore-art-museum-in-cooperstown-new-york-shines-spotlight-on-women-of-abstract-expressionism/)

You know Cooperstown, New York as the home of Babe Ruth, Willie Mays, Johnny Bench and the greats of baseball history who take up residence at the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Joining them in this bucolic upstate hamlet through December 21 are another group of standouts in their field, a group still fighting for their household name status.Heroines of Abstract Expressionism at the Fenimore Art Museum brings to the forefront 19 eminent women from the groundbreaking mid-century American art movement through 30 examples of their work. The items are drawn from the collection of Richard P. Friedman and Cindy Lou Wakefield.
The struggle for recognition among female Ab Ex painters has been 60 years in the fighting. It’s a fight Friedman took up 15 years ago on his first date with Wakefield, who was then a freelance writer for the Pollock-Krasner House Study Center in East Hampton, New York.
Their topics of conversation that day included Jackson Pollock, the most famous of all Ab Ex painters. Pollock as married to Lee Krasner, one of the featured artists in Heroines.
Without initially intending to do so, after several years of collecting together, Friendman and Wakefield realized they had acquired a significant holding of work by the women of Ab Ex.
“Aesthetically and instinctively, these artworks resonate with me more than other genres or even other periods of art,” Friedman said about his female Ab Ex paintings. “I actually am elated, happy and thrilled when I look at these pictures.”
Friedman and Wakefield are further connected to these artists by location. The couple resides in Southampton, on the east end of Long Island, an area where several Ab Ex painters lived and worked and where their presence can still be felt.
“When I acquire and collect Pollock or de Kooning or any of these amazing female artists presented in the show, I am just buying local artists,” Friedman says, understanding how smug his humble-brag of “collecting local artists” can seem when those local artists stand among the giants of art history.
Abstract Expressionism was characterized by experimental, gestural, nonrepresentational painting, often on radically large canvases.
“It's not as easy as it looks,” Friedman, a longtime organizer of art fairs with upcoming events in Philadelphia and Denver, says. “The trick is to create a sense of feeling, a lasting spontaneity, a vivid gesture and color integration that is vibrant, emotes motion, energy, excitement and, in the end, speaks to you.”
Practitioners of both genders were equally effective in doing so.
Where the men of Ab Ex–Pollock in particular–did stand out from their female counterparts, contributing in part to their notoriety, or infamy–Pollock in particular–was their moody, brooding, macho, brawling, often drunken public personas.
Male Ab Ex painters adhered to a lifestyle. They were cast members of a scene. Loud was better. Outrageous was better. Occurring during an era in American history dismissive of women generally, artist or otherwise, the female Ab Ex painters were drowned out.
It has taken the dedication of scholars and museum curators—and the commitment of a small number of prescient collectors like Friedman and Wakefield—to restore these women to their rightful place in the history of American art.
An attempt to balance the art historical ledger when it comes to art history broadly and Abstract Expressionism in particular is taking place across the country. The San Diego Museum of Art presents Abstract Revolution through February 23, 2020. Similar to Heroines, Abstract Revolution puts its focus on the overlooked women of the movement. Art museums in New Orleans, Louisiana and Jacksonville, Florida, to name only two more, are lending their support.
These collective efforts may be producing results.
While it represents only one isolated example, symbolically, the auctioning of a Krasner painting this past May for $11.7 million, double her previous auction high, signifies a considerable change.
“I have been collecting for about 15 years and I thought I was too late to the party to buy these artists, but as I turned out, I was still early–their prices have steadily risen, breaking auction records consistently,” Friedman said. “I know many collectors that have just now begun buying works by female artists.”
Better late than never.
Is this work as good as the male titans of the movement? Take a look. Challenge yourself to find any artistic shortcomings between Krasner, Elaine de Kooning, Helen Frankenthaler, Grace Hartigan or Joan Mitchell, all featured in Heroines, and their male counterparts, Pollock, Elaine’s husband Willem de Kooning, Mark Rothko or Clyfford Still.
Sleep on it if you need to.
Take advantage of the waning fall colors in New York making your visit even more enjoyable with a stay The Otesaga Hotel and Resort, overlooking beautiful Otsego Lake. The Fenimore has partnered with the hotel for a special overnight package featuring luxurious accommodations, tickets to the museum, an exhibition catalogue from Heroines and more.
