
# Lucas Torreira 'set for crunch talks with Unai Emery' over Arsenal future

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:08:27+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/lucas-torreira-set-crunch-talks-20836578)

Arsenal midfielder Lucas Torreira is reportedly set to hold crunch talks with Unai Emery over his future next week.
Torreira has struggled to kick-on in his second season in England, starting just three Premier League games so far this campaign.
According to Tuttomercartoweb, the 23-year-old is dissatisfied with his role and contemplating pushing for an exit.
They claim he has scheduled a meeting with Emery and Gunners chiefs next week to discuss his concerns and could push to leave the club in January if he does not leave with a clearer picture of his role at the club moving forwards.
Torreira was heavily linked with an exit in the summer with AC Milan keen on taking the Uruguayan back to Italy.
The former Sampdoria man threw doubt on his Arsenal future when he discussed his struggles adapting to life in England.
Asked about life in England, he told Uruguayan outlet Ovacion : "I don’t know if there are many things that I enjoy.
"I think it was better in Italy. England is a totally different world, a very large country.
"The language [barrier] has stopped me, to be able to relate with my teammates and with the people. It is very difficult when you can't have dialogue.
"And so is the climate. You go out in the morning and it is cloudy, you arrive late to your home and it is cloudy.
"It is strange a little bit, the sun, the more of us that we are here and we are accustomed to having always or almost always the sun. But as the years pass, I’m going to be adapting."
Asked about falling down the pecking order at Arsenal last month, Torreira said: "I don't know whether I'd say it's frustrating.
"All players want to play, they obviously want to be in the starting XI – that's completely normal. But that's not something that depends on me.
"It's down to the coach to make those decisions and really I have to respect that. Right now it's about not giving up.
"You have to continue working hard and whether I'm playing in the starting XI or from the bench I want to give my all for the team. That's the kind of player I am.
"I like to give 100 per cent for the shirt to help my team-mates and to give the fans something to cheer about."
