
# HP Spectre x360 13 With 4K OLED Display Available, Dragonfly Coming

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brooke Crothers**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brookecrothers/2019/11/03/hp-ships-spectre-x360-13-with-4k-oled-display-readies-22-pound-elite-dragonfly-dell-xps-13-gets-some-competition/)

Hewlett-Packard has begun to ship one of the first 13-inch laptops with an OLED display. And is getting ready to release its super lightweight Elite Dragonfly.
HP redesigned (an already well-designed) Spectre x360 13 and shrunk the 2-in-1 by 13 percent over last year’s model. The company also added an OLED (organic light-emitting diode) display, one of the first manufacturers to do this on a 13-inch laptop.
OLEDs typically deliver more vibrant colors, deeper blacks, and can take advantage of dark mode by turning off pixels and thereby saving battery life.
The most conspicuous size reduction is on the thinner top bezel, roughly matching the Dell XPS 13 “borderless” design. But HP managed to fit a tiny Windows Hello face ID 2.2 mm IR camera into the top bezel, which Dell does not have (yet) on the XPS 13.
In addition to the optional 400-nit display 4K OLED display, the 2-in-1 Spectre x360 keeps the gem cut and dual chamfer angular corners of the previous design.
Another notable addition is Intel’s 10th Gen Core processors.
Best Buy is selling the 4K OLED model with an Intel Core i7-1065G7 processor, 16GB Memory, 1TB SSD + 32GB Optane for $1,699.99.
There is already a review comparing the new OLED x360 13 with the Lenovo Yoga C940.

        Elite Dragonfly
      
HP is also prepping a novel 13-inch laptop that weighs in at only 2.2 pounds. That makes it lighter than Google’s new Pixelbook Go (2.4 pounds) and much lighter than Apple’s lightest laptop, the Retina MacBook Air (2.75 pounds).
Other highlights include an iridescent dragonfly blue color, magnesium chassis (like the Pixelbook Go), and an optional 1000-nit ultrabright display.
Shedding even fractions of a pound on a laptop is typically costly for the manufacturer. That’s why ultra-light laptops usually come at a price premium.
HP is currently showing a ship date of 11/26 on its Dragonfly page. The config is $1,629, which comes with a 256GB SSD, 16GB of memory, two Thunderbolt USB Type-C connectors, 8th gen Intel processors, face and fingerprint ID, and a 3 year warranty.
