
# Cassius Stanley, Duke Show Off Depth, Defense, Athleticism In Opening-Season Victory Over Kansas In Champions Classic

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Tim Casey**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timcasey/2019/11/06/cassius-stanley-duke-show-off-depth-defense-athleticism-in-opening-season-victory-over-kansas-in-champions-classic/)

On Tuesday, before Duke’s shootaround at Madison Square Garden, freshman shooting guard Cassius Stanley took photographs of himself standing in front of the arena and sent text messages to several friends. He couldn’t believe he was about to make his college debut a few hours later against Kansas at the Champions Classic. Stanley, who grew up in Los Angeles, had visited New York a few times, but he had never been to a game there.“I was like, ‘Yo, I’m really outside MSG,’” Stanley said.
Stanley was even more enthusiastic Tuesday night following No. 4 Duke’s 68-66 victory over No. 3 Kansas, and for good reason. Stanley finished with 13 points, including 11 in the second half during which he helped stave off a Jayhawks’ comeback.
Duke led 37-32 shortly after halftime, but Kansas then went on a 14-0 run. The Jayhawks were ahead 47-43 before Stanley had two highlight-worthy dunks in transition on consecutive possessions, the latter on a sensational pass from sophomore point guard Tre Jones that he threw between the legs of a Kansas defender. Stanley also made a corner three-pointer midway through the half and converted a three-point play that gave the Blue Devils a 62-61 advantage with 2:29 left. They led the rest of the way.
“It’s an amazing event,” Stanley said. “It’s an amazing arena. It’s just a blessing.”
And, to think, Duke didn’t show much interest in recruiting Stanley until late in his senior year at Sierra Canyon high school. At the time, Stanley had narrowed his college choices to Kansas, Oregon and UCLA. But the Blue Devils’ coaches reportedly were impressed with Stanley when they saw him lead Sierra Canyon to a second consecutive California state title. He visited the Duke campus in April and committed later that month.
Stanley created some buzz in September when Duke revealed via Twitter he had broken Zion Williamson’s record for the program’s vertical jump record. Although the Blue Devils provided no further details, Stanley noted on Tuesday that he had jumped 46 ½ inches, which is 1 ½ inches higher than Williamson.
Stanley will almost certainly not match Williamson’s on-court production this season. After all, Williamson was the national player of the year as a freshman last season and the top pick in June’s NBA draft. But the Blue Devils will be counting on Stanley to contribute primarily as a defender and rebounder and finisher on the fast break for a team that is vastly different than last year’s squad.
During the 2018-19 season, Williamson (22.6 points) and fellow freshmen forwards R.J. Barrett (22.6 points) and Cam Reddish (13.5 points) combined for 58.7 points per game, accounting for 71% of Duke’s offense. The Blue Devils don’t have a trio like that, but they do have a more balanced roster.
“We’re way deep,” Stanley said. “We’re super deep. It can be a different leading scorer every night.”
On Tuesday, Stanley was one of four Duke players in double figures. Jones had 15 points, while freshman forward Matthew Hurt and freshman center Vernon Carey had 11 points apiece. In all, nine players played at least 12 minutes. The Blue Devils also forced 28 Kansas turnovers, including 18 in the first half, had 11 steals and made it difficult for the Jayhawks to run their offense.
At this event last year, the Blue Devils crushed Kentucky 118-84, as Williamson (28 points), Barrett (33) and Reddish (22) each had impressive debuts. They were so good that night that some people wondered if Duke could finish the season undefeated. The Blue Devils ended the season 32-6 and lost to Michigan State in the Elite 8. How does Tuesday’s performance compare with last year’s Champions Classic?
“I think I’m maybe even a little bit happier now,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “That was like one of those things that was just, ‘How the hell did that happen?’ It really didn’t tell us as much about our team as tonight told about our team.”
The Blue Devils will have plenty more challenges in the weeks and months ahead, including a matchup at Michigan State on Dec. 3. They also return to Madison Square Garden later this month for a game against California on Nov. 21. The next night, they play Georgetown or Texas at MSG, which Stanley is already eagerly anticipating.
“I’m pretty LA-biased,” Stanley said. “I think LA’s the best city, but New York’s great and MSG’s amazing.”
Stanley is so smitten with the arena that he now prefers it over the Staples Center in Los Angeles, where his hometown Lakers and Clippers play their home games.
“I’ve got to be honest,” Stanley said. “MSG’s better. Way better.”
