
# Louise Redknapp hints at new boyfriend after reports she 'kissed a footballer'

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:58:47+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/louise-redknapp-hints-new-boyfriend-20812761)

Louise Redknapp has sent her fans into raptures with a cryptic message before celebrating her birthday.
The 45-year-old singer has hinted that there may be a new man in her life, after previously lamenting the demise of her marriage to former footballer Jamie Redknapp, in 2018.
The former Eternal singer shared lyrics on her Instagram story of Ariana Grande's song Boyfriend.
She surprised her fans by posting: "I can't have what I want, but neither can you.
"You ain't my boyfriend/I ain't your girlfriend.
"But you don't want me to see nobody else/ And I don't want you to see nobody else."
The cryptic message comes after reports in The Sun that Louise had kissed former footballer turned model John Halls.
Her clinch with Halls reportedly happened after her split from Jamie but despite the passionate kiss, it was the last action they saw as Louise decided that he wasn't the man for her.
It would seem that there is another man in her life now though, but fans were scratching their heads as to who it could be.
Earlier in the year, Louise had spoken out about her regrets over the break up of her marriage to Jamie.
"I’m scared about the future. Jamie and I have got to a really positive place with each other. But I don’t know what life is going to be like," she told You magazine in March.
"I’m nervous about work and career and all those things, because I’m not young. And people are judgmental."
Louise has now posted a series of pics from recent years on her Instagram story, as friends and followers wished her happy birthday on Monday.
She also shared a short video of her being serenaded in a club, as her birthday celebrations threaten to spill into the next day.
In the days before her birthday, Louise has admitted that her sexy snaps on social media had led to her sons being teased at school.
Speaking at the GLAMOUR Beauty Festival, Louise said: "When my Stretch video came out, my 15-year-old son said: 'Are you kidding me, mum? When I go into DT class, everyone winds me up and puts your music video on all the screens'.
"We laugh about it, he is a strong character."
This hasn't dampened her desire to share with fans her slender frame, as she posted a pic of her in a black bodysuit on Friday.
Louise was leaning over a green cushioned chair as she showed off her long legs and pert backside.
Fans were quick to praise the singer, with one commenting: "Beautiful legs, stunning body."

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
