
# Dealmaster: Get 3 months of Audible for just $6.95 per month

Published at: **2019-11-07T18:49:59+00:00**

Author: **Ars Staff**

Original: [Ars Technica](https://arstechnica.com/staff/2019/11/dealmaster-get-3-months-of-audible-for-just-6-95-per-month/)

Greetings, Arsians! The Dealmaster is back with another batch of deals and discounts to share. Topping our list today is a sale on a three-month Audible membership. All-new subscribers can get three months of the audiobook subscription service for just $6.95 per month—that's a total of $20.85 for three months.
Typically, Audible costs $14.95 per month, making a three-month subscription $45. This deal shaves almost 50% off the normal price, and it's likely one of the best deals we'll see on Audible memberships until the end of the year. Audible discounts are infrequent, and it's unlikely that Amazon (Audible's parent company) will discount the service even more for Black Friday or Cyber Monday. It's always possible—but we don't expect it.
The only caveat is that you must be a totally new Audible member to get this deal, so those who have subscribed in the past and have cancelled cannot renew their subscriptions at the discounted rate. Audible is clearly aiming this sale at new subscribers in the hopes that they will continue their memberships well after the three-month discounted rate expires.
Each of the three credits you get with this Audible subscription can be redeemed for one audiobook from the company's vast library. Even if you cancel after three months, the books you chose are yours to keep. But members get a lot more than just three book credits—they have access to members-only sales and daily deals, plus they get to pick two Audible Originals every month.
In addition to the Audible discount, we have a bunch of other deals from different brands and retailers as they gear up for Black Friday later in the month. With the shopping season being shorter than usual this year, many retailers are starting their deals early. Best Buy has a number of good deals already, including the lowest price we've seen on our favorite budget Chromebook, the Lenovo Chromebook C330. There are also deals on a number of Samsung smart TVs, wireless headphones, storage solutions, charging accessories, and more. Check out the full list of deals below.
The Dealmaster is launching its very own newsletter! Sign up to receive a shorter, tightly curated list of the very best tech deals on the Web—no nonsense, direct to your inbox, and often before they make it to the Ars homepage. Sign Me Up!

        Note: Ars Technica may earn compensation for sales from links on this post through affiliate programs.
      
