
# Pete Buttigieg Is The Latest Presidential Candidate To Release An Exclusive Disability Plan— The Most Comprehensive One Yet

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Kim**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sarahkim/2019/11/02/pete-buttigieg-disability-plan/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

According to a New York Times/Siena College poll of likely Democratic candidates, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana, surpasses former Vice President Joe Biden for second runner-up. Senator Elizabeth Warren is first, slightly ahead of Senator Bernie Sanders.The presidential candidates have been under scrutiny of the disability community for ignoring them as a voting population in the early campaigning stages. While each of the candidates set foot in their candidacy announcements by appealing to the other minority groups, such as people of color, immigrants and the LGBTQ community, they didn’t make the same conscious effort for the disability community, the nation’s largest minority group.
After hearing the cries from the disability population, the 2020 democratic presidential candidates are slowly, but surely, beginning to address them.
With the Iowa caucuses just three months away, Mayor Pete Buttigieg is the latest candidate to release an exclusive disability policy plan, following Senator Kamala Harris’ lead from August.
In a White Paper released this morning on the mayor’s website, titled Dignity, Access, and Belonging: A New Era of Inclusion for People with Disabilities, the campaign team writes, “As President, Pete will build a culture of belonging for everyone. He is committed to systematically dismantling institutions that discriminate against people with disabilities, and, with and alongside them, helping to build a new, long-overdue era for this community. Pete will retrofit our government, so it works for—and not against—people with disabilities. He will help bring about a society that intuitively sees, accounts for, welcomes, and values their lived experiences.”
Mayor Buttigieg’s campaign team sought expert input from the community and staff in shaping the most comprehensive disability policy plan in the 2020 field to date. This is the candidate’s latest effort to be inclusive of people with disabilities, following his promise to hire them as campaign staff last April.
In a 19-page report, the office of Mayor Buttigieg outlines in detail the executive plan he plans to enact if elected president to improve the quality of life and to increase educational and vocational opportunities for people with disabilities.
Policies and programs are outlined in the following: 

        Competitive Integrated Employment
      

        Education
      

        Civil and voting rights
      

        Social Security
      

        Long-term services and supports
      

        Accessible transportation
      

        Health care
      

        Housing and disaster preparedness
      

        Inclusive technology
      

        Global leadership
      
A recent survey shows that fully three-quarters of likely voters either have a disability themselves or have a family member or a close friend with disabilities. The study was endorsed by former Representative and Dallas Mayor Bartlett, who was a primary author of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.
Presidential hopeful Pete Buttigieg’s latest release of the white paper will grasp the attention of many voters who have a connection with disabilities. There will also be critics among the crowd who will view his multi-faceted plan as too ambitious or ill-focused.
As the youngest contender in the running, Buttigieg doesn’t have that much experience under his belt, let alone experience with implementing disability policies. As mayor, the only notable initiatives regarding disability that he has done are making a neighborhood park playground accessible, including accessibility in the Smart Streets project and expanded the local Human Rights Commission, where EEOC complaints are investigated. Although community members with disabilities will surely benefit from those initiatives, disability inclusion wasn’t the central force that drove the mayor to implement those plans. Instead, disability inclusion and accessibility were seemingly byproducts of such projects.
Perhaps with youth comes more opportunities to grow and tackle more things in the further. However, as much as it is commendable that Buttigieg and his team came up with this all-inclusive disability plan, the people in this community will eagerly wait to see how much of it actually gets implemented, if he is elected President.
