
# Arjun on marriage with Malaika, Ranveer hides his serious side, Yami welcomes PM Modi, Rishi takes a dig at Delhi pollution

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:37:17+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/news/arjun-on-marriage-with-malaika-ranveer-hides-his-serious-side-yami-welcomes-pm-modi-rishi-takes-a-dig-at-delhi-pollution/articleshow/71959302.cms)

Arjun Kapoor and Malaika Arora have been the talk of the town for their relationship. And in a recent interview, the actor opened up about his girlfriend and their impending marriage plans.
During the conversation, the actor shared that they don't want to get married and shall invite everyone whenever it happens. The reason behind the same is that his family has big fat weddings and he won't be allowed to get married in a hush-hush wedding.

        Read Also:
        Arjun Kapoor speaks on his marriage with Malaika Arora, says we don't want to get married
      
Ranveer Singh is known for his powerful, high-energy and quirky fashion sense. However recently, the actor opened up about his unseen side. The actor revealed that he has a feminine soul as he has been brought by strong women. The actor added that he can be a very intense and serious person. Even his wifey Deepika Padukone knows this side of the actor. When asked if why he hides it, the actor had no answers.

        Read Also:
        Ranveer Singh reveals he hides his serious side and wife Deepika Padukone knows it!
      
Yami Gautam is the brand ambassador of the Rising Himachal Global Investors' Meet 2019 as she hails from the state. And today, the event was graced by the honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The actress met the PM at the event and the two exchanged pleasantries. The event was also attended by Himachal Pradesh CM, Jai Ram Thakur and Bikram Thakur, the Industrial Minister of the state.

        Read Also:
        Yami Gautam welcomes Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Dharamshala
      
Rishi Kapoor has always been outspoken when it comes to expressing his views. Sighting the current air pollution situation in Delhi, the actor had earlier alarmed the netizens about it. However, he once again took a dig at the crisis with his witty statement.
Rishi Kapoor speaking about the same situation once again took to his Twitter handle and wrote, "Wah re Dilli! Police maange Protection - lawyer maange Justice - public maange Oxygen!!!!!! Dekh tere insan ki haalat kya ho gai Bhagwan kitna badal gaya insaan!."

        Read Also:
        Rishi Kapoor takes a dig at Delhi air pollutin crisis yet again with a witty post
      
Ileana D’Cruz had closely guarded her relationship with Andrew Kneebone, sparingly dropping hints about their relationship. However this year the couple parted ways and seems like the actress is positively emerging from the heart-break.
In an interview with a news portal, Ileana stated that after the break-up she went to a therapist who told her to accept the complements and that she is doing well now. While Ileana went on to accept that having a partner makes one calm and secure, the actress added that she is not ready for love. The ‘Rustom’ actress wished good for Andrew and stated that after the break-up, she didn’t curse him or think anything bad about him.

        Read Also:
        Ileana D’Cruz reveals she is not ready for love after break-up with Andrew Kneebone
      
The much-awaited film 'Pati, Patni Aur Woh' starring Kartik Aaryan, Bhumi Pednekar and Ananya Panday is all set to hit the theatres in December. Although the trailer is being appreciated by many, a large section of the society has objected with the way 'marital rape' dialogue has been delivered.
When Bhumi was asked about the controversy of the scene, during an interview with Zoom TV, the actress said, "If we have hurt anybody’s sentiments, we are sorry, because that wasn’t the intention. But everybody who is involved in 'Pati Patni Aur Woh', does not belong to that school, does not belong to that thought process."

        Read Also:
        'Pati, Patni Aur Woh': THIS is what Bhumi Pednekar has to say about the marital rape joke
      
