
# The TCL Alto 7+ Sound Bar Just Got Its First Discount

Published at: **2019-11-01T20:08:34+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-tcl-alto-7-plus-black-friday-discount-sale.html)

Amazon has the TCL Alto 7+ sound bar on a discount of $30 right now. That brings this already affordable sound bar and wireless subwoofer down to just $149.
This is perhaps the best inexpensive sound bar and wireless subwoofer that you can pick up for your entertainment center.
The Alto 7+ is the most expensive of TCL's sound bars, and that's because it is a 2.1-channel sound bar and it also comes with a wireless subwoofer. Making it great for a larger room. And those that want a lot of bass in their sound system.
Advertisement
The bass, as you'd expect from a wireless subwoofer, on this one is pretty intense. Get ready for some earth-shaking bass out of the Alto 7+. The mids and highs are pretty crisp and clear too, which is always a good thing here. So the sound is really good. Though, don't compare to this to something from Samsung or LG that costs about three times this, as it won't compete.
Now speaking of the regular price, at $179, with a sound bar and wireless subwoofer, TCL did have to cut a few corners to hit that price. That means there is no Dolby Atmos here. That's not a big deal for most people. But if you did want Atmos, you'll have to look elsewhere – it's usually on the sound bars that are over $500. There is also no Chromecast. You can still stream music from your phone, but you'll need to do it the old-fashioned way, over Bluetooth.
Otherwise, this is a very easy to set up sound bar and wireless sub and definitely worth picking up if you're tired of how bad your TVs internal speakers sound in your home.
Advertisement
You can pick up the TCL Alto 7+ Sound Bar and Wireless Subwoofer from Amazon by clicking here. This price won't last long though.

        TCL Alto 7+ Sound Bar - Amazon - $149
      
