
# Kesha to Headline Free Concert for All Rock ’n’ Roll Las Vegas Racers

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:23:07+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Smith**

Original: [Runner&#39;s World](https://www.runnersworld.com/news/a29698807/kesha-headline-rock-n-roll-las-vegas-concert/)

This place’s about blow, oh-oh-oh: Kesha is going to be headlining this year’s Rock ’n’ Roll Las Vegas race opening concert on Saturday, November 16.
Kesha will be the first female artist to headline the event, which will start around 7 p.m.
The concert will be held at the Las Vegas Festival Grounds on Saturday night after the 5K. It was moved to Saturday night this year to allow everyone to enjoy the show either before or after running their race on the closed-down strip.
The longer races will take place on Sunday afternoon, with the 10K starting at 3:50 and the half and full marathons beginning at 4:30 p.m.
“Closing down the Las Vegas Strip for runners is a big deal, and we wanted to find a performer to match that level of excitement over race weekend—Kesha fits the bill perfectly and should give our participants a great ‘shake out’ after the 5K and before Sunday’s 10K, half marathon and marathon,” race director Stacey Campbell told Runner’s World. “Kesha’s music embodies the inclusive and energetic nature of the running community, and the new Saturday night concert will set the tone for an unforgettable experience for participants and the local community. We’re thrilled that she will be the first female headliner to grace the Humana Rock ’n’ Roll Las Vegas stage.”

        [
        From training tips, to fueling strategies, to improving the mind-body connection, the 
        
          
            
              Runner's World 2020 Calendar
            
          
        
         will help you run your best all year long.]
      
According to Kesha, singing for the runners will be a unique experience.
“Runners have an inherent energy and strength that reveals amazing self-empowerment, focus and determination to get through the toughest moments, which is something I can relate to,” Kesha said in a statement provided to Runner’s World. “It’s an honor to join the acclaimed performers that have headlined this event in previous years, and I can’t wait to bring my own wild, fun, and hopefully encouraging running-conducive energy for everyone to enjoy for the big race.”
Registered participants running any distance can attend for free—and can bring a guest—but both must stop by the expo beforehand to pick up a “Runner Perks” wristband first.
If you want to get in on the fun but haven’t trained for a marathon, you still have a chance to sign up for the 5K. In celebration of Kesha’s new single, “Raising Hell,” the race is offering the first 500 people who register with code “KESHA” a $40 entry into the 5K, which also includes tickets to Kesha’s concert.
