
# ‘A film for discerning audience’

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Bangalore Mirror Bureau**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/entertainment/south-masala/a-film-for-discerning-audience/articleshow/71871739.cms)

The first film in the trilogy deals with the fightback of a rape victim The 50th International Film Festival of India will have only one Kannada film in its Panorama section. Director Dayal Padmanabhan’s Ranganayaki, a film that explores the fightback of a victim of sexual harassment is that film. It is the first of a trilogy that Dayal is making on the theme of women empowerment. The film is made under the Yesvee Entertainment banner of producer SV Narayan. The film stars Aditi Prabhudeva in the lead and released this week. Producer SV Narayan says that the film is a must-watch for discerning audience. Narayan accepts that commercial films are always questioned for their lack of understanding of women issues and for glorifying sexual harassment. “This film tackles the issue from a different point of view. It is seen from the eyes of the protagonist, who is the victim. But she is not someone who plays the victim card. She fights against the misogynist society every step but does not give up. The film makes the case for a strong female character,” he said. “There are many issues film makers or even the media ignores to explore in these cases. We just talk about victims backtracking and turning hostile in the cases. Men and the society ignore why a woman is forced to make such a move,” he says. The film also stars MG Srinivas and Trivikram among others. For Srinivas this is the second trilogy. He acted and directed the first of the Birbal trilogy earlier. Dayal has written the script apart from directing while Naveen Krishna has penned the dialogues.
