
# Trump praises UFC fighter Jorge Masvidal who called president a 'bad motherf-----' in video

Published at: **2019-11-03T20:55:53+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Sorace**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-ufc-jorge-masvidal-praise-video)

President Trump congratulated UFC fighter Jorge Masvidal on his victory over Nate Diaz in the octagon Saturday night, re-tweeting a video in which the mixed-martial artist called him a “bad motherf-----.”
Trump had attended the UFC 244 bout Saturday night at Madison Square Garden in New York City, watching as No. 3-ranked Masvidal improved his record to 35-13 on a technical knockout when a gash split open over Diaz’s right eye after the third round and a doctor called off the match.

        
          TRUMP CHEERED (AND BOOED) AT UFC MATCH IN NEW YORK CITY
        
      
“Great fight Champ!” Trump wrote Sunday morning on Twitter, retweeting a video of the American fighter in the days ahead of his bout with Diaz.
The video clip showed Masvidal apparently speaking to a reporter about his thoughts on the president.
“No matter what your views on Trump as a president, the guy’s a bad motherf-----, man — the money that he’s made, the obstacles that he’s conquered. He’s a bad motherf----- in his own way, you know, no matter what your political views are,” Masvidal said in the clip.
In a second tweet, Trump likened the energy of his reception at the Garden to one of his Trump rallies.
“Walking into Madison Square Garden last night with @danawhite for the big @UFC Championship fight was a little bit like walking into a Trump Rally,” he wrote. “Plenty of MAGA & KAG present. Great energy. Fantastic job Dana! Heading to D.C. and then to Kentucky for a big @MattBevin Rally…”
