
# Courageous Pride of Britain winner overwhelmed as he meets Corrie's David Platt

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:07:20+00:00**

Author: **Amanda Killelea, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/amanda-killelea/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/courageous-pride-britain-winner-overwhelmed-20792383)

All Dante Marvin knew was that he was meeting a new mascot for the children’s charity that he represents as an ambassador.
The mascot was an hour late, and so when the big blue beast finally walked in, the ­confident youngster gave it a piece of his mind.
Hanging its head in shame, the furry creature tried to make its excuses. But there was something familiar about the voice...
Clever Dante told his mum Rachael New: “He sounds like Jack P. Shepherd!”
He was right – inside the costume was Dante’s favourite celebrity, 31-year-old Jack, who plays David Platt in Coronation Street .
And in the actor’s hand was another surprise – an invitation to the Pride of Britain Awards , in partnership with TSB, to receive a Child of Courage award.
Dante says: “I don’t have the words to describe how much I love David Platt. He has the same personality as me – kooky. I was so shocked to see Jack I had to go away and have a little cry.”
Rachael had taken her son from their Liverpool home to the Corrie set in Salford on the pretence that Dante was there to meet a new mascot for the children’s charity Variety, for which he is an ambassador.
But while this 11-year-old may be small, he has a huge personality and an even bigger heart – and not much gets past him.
 
Jack gave him a tour of the Coronation Street set, and Dante pointed out all the spots where his favourite scenes had happened.
Dante was chosen for a Child of Courage award for the way he doesn’t let his condition, brittle bone disease, which means even something as simple as a sneeze can cause a bone to break, stop him living life to the max.
He also helps other ­children with disabilities whenever he can – “There are no disabilities, only abilities” is his powerful motto.
While Rachael, 35, was pregnant, doctors told her and partner Earl Marvin that their baby had a health condition, but that they were unsure what it was.
It was only after Dante’s collarbone broke during delivery, and medics spotted 15 other bones had broken while he was in the womb, that tests revealed brittle bone disease.
Rachael says: “Within half an hour they had moved Dante to special care.
“I was told I couldn’t hold him for fear of breaking him. It was horrible. I went home and researched the condition so I would know how to feed him, hold him, wind him.
“The next day I got to the hospital and got a cushion to rest him on like I had read, and I held him for 13 to 14 hours a day.
“The nurses asked me how I was doing it and I said, ‘Well if we are scared, he is going to be scared and that is not how I live. We have just got to get on with it’.”
Clearly Dante has inherited his mum’s determined streak and “never say never” attitude.
Already he has broken 92 bones and had 17 separate operations to insert rods into his limbs.
But that doesn’t stop him doing anything he puts his mind to. He goes to a mainstream school, where he whizzes around the corridors in his wheelchair with pals.
Rachael applied to Variety for funding for a lightweight version to help him get around more easily.
The charity gave them the funds – even letting Dante help design it – and afterwards the determined youngster vowed to help raise funds and awareness for the cause so that other children with disabilities could get the help they needed to live their lives to the fullest, just as he does.
“They invited Dante to an event,” says Rachael, “and Dante being Dante asked them if there was anything he could do for them while he was there.”
Variety tasked him with selling yoga bears, toys that help disabled children do yoga, and beating a target of selling 210.
“So he got on the stage and said, ‘If everyone buys a bear I will breakdance for you’,” Rachael smiles.
“He sold 225 bears in the space of 10 minutes and got out of his chair and did his breakdance.
“The charity then asked if he could be an ambassador.”
At the Pride of Britain awards ceremony this week, Dante’s sparkling personality won over the celebrity audience in much the same way.
He shouted, “What’s up, London?” as he went on stage, where he sang with pop star Anne Marie and danced with Diversity’s Ashley Banjo.
He also high-fived terminally ill Aaron Hunter, nine, who was named Young Fundraiser of the Year.
Proud Rachael says her son is happy if he is helping and making others happy.
He never lets his condition get him down, she adds, and he is always more concerned about other children being treated than himself.
“I don’t stop Dante from doing anything – he just gets on with it,” she explains with pride. “He hates seeing other children being sad.
“If I take him to hospital with a broken bone he is more bothered about the child in the bed opposite.
“He has got a high pain threshold and always defies what the doctors tell him. If they say he is going to be in hospital for a week, he makes it his mission to be home in a few days.
“Now he knows he is helping other disabled children. I am so proud.”

        * The Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards, in partnership with TSB, will be on ITV on November 5 at 8pm.
      
