
# Chicago Sees Spike in ‘Switch’ Device Capable of Turning Pistol Into Machine Gun

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/us/201911061077239798-chicago-sees-spike-in-switch-device-capable-of-turning-pistol-into-machine-gun-/)


        Law enforcement officials in Chicago, Illinois, have seen a spike of illegal online purchases of “Glock Switches,” devices that allow gun owners to turn their semi-automatic Glock handguns into miniature machine guns, an investigation by news station WGN9 has revealed.
      
The local news station reported that officials with the US’ Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) found more than 2,500 individuals across the Land of the Free who have made the illegal purchases. And of those cases, at least 118 individuals possessing 256 of the switch devices were detected within the ATF’s Chicago jurisdiction.
The investigation further revealed that the device, which is classified as a machine gun under federal law, is often sold by vendors based outside of the US, and for the small fee of roughly $30.
Earlier this year, reports surfaced that both ATF and customs personnel seized more than 2,900 shipments of the conversion devices in Chicago, and that officials suspected that the illegal devices were shipped into the US from China.
However, it should be noted that shipping labels fitted onto the seized packages described the shipped items as “handcrafted finished pieces” and “multitool switch” in other instances.
Concerns about the devices getting into the hands of criminals are rampant. CNN noted in its findings that one of the customers who reportedly obtained the switch item from the China-based vendor is a convicted felon. The individual is suspected of purchasing at least two switch devices.
Both men were hit with felony charges and are presently out on bond.
