
# Every Arnold Schwarzenegger Movie Performance, Ranked

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:00:17+00:00**

Author: **Tim Grierson, Will Leitch**

Original: [VULTURE](https://www.vulture.com/article/best-arnold-schwarzenegger-movies-ranked.html?utm_source=Sailthru&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Vulture-%20November%205%2C%202019&utm_term=Subscription%20List%20-%20Vulture%20%281%20Year%29)

Never underestimate Arnold Strong. When bodybuilder Arnold Schwarzenegger plotted his move to Hollywood to become an actor, he was pressured into changing his last name for his first film, 1970’s Hercules in New York. “[N]obody could pronounce Schwarzenegger … it was a ludicrous name,” he observed in his memoir Total Recall. Plus, his thick Austrian accent forced the filmmakers to dub all his dialogue, and the production company went broke, guaranteeing that just about nobody could see the dopey fantasy comedy in which he played the Roman demigod come down to Earth. None of that discouraged the young man. “[S]tarring as Hercules was way beyond any dream for me,” he wrote. “And they paid me $1,000 a week. Best of all, I got to send photographs home to my parents and write, ‘You see? I told you the whole thing was going to work. I came to America, won Mr. Universe, and now I’m in the movies.’”
It turned out Schwarzenegger was Hollywood’s biggest dreamer. Born in 1947, he saw America as the land of opportunity, and he diligently pursued his superstar aspirations, first landing a bit part in Robert Altman’s 1973 revisionist noir The Long Goodbye and then slowly working his way up to larger parts by the end of the decade. When the ’80s swept in, he found his niche, playing muscular, unreal cinematic titans in the Conan movies and The Terminator before transitioning to comedies with 1988’s Twins, which cheekily mocked his brawny physique. America loves an underdog story, and Schwarzenegger’s was one of the entertainment industry’s most likable: Nobody believed he could be a star, so he kept applying himself until he could no longer be denied.
Then once he reached the top of the mountain, he kept dreaming. As his stardom was starting to stall in the early 21st century, he not only got into politics, he became the governor of California, winning the 2003 recall election — a feat that seemed just as unlikely as his previous cinematic ambitions. Audiences moved on to other action heroes, but in 2011, he came back to Hollywood determined to reassert his dominance. It’s the only time his seemingly unflappable ambition has ever collided with reality: 2015’s Terminator Genisys failed to reignite the franchise, and his other post-governor work has mostly seen him subsisting on fans’ faded admiration for his ’80s and ’90s commercial peak. And that’s not to mention a handful of off-screen scandals that, in many ways, were warning signs for the Way We Live Now.
Now 72, Schwarzenegger will never be the box-office champ he once was, but his career stands as a reminder of a time, not that long ago, when audiences would go to a movie simply because he was in it. In our modern, IP-driven age, we’ve forgotten what it was like when the industry was truly ruled by stars. That was Arnold’s time. (And it might still be: His latest, Terminator: Dark Fate, proves he’s refusing to hasta la vista, baby into that good night.)
So let’s rank his best (and worst) performances. A couple of ground rules first, though. We decided not to include the 1977 documentary Pumping Iron, and we’re bypassing The Long Goodbye, The Villain, and Scavenger Hunt because they’re just so minor. (That’s also the case for cameos, as when he played himself in Dave.) As an actor, Schwarzenegger is far from nuanced, but the towering, monolithic bluntness of his best performances has its own kind of power. Lots of people want to be movie stars, but he figured out a way to make it happen. Part of the reason audiences love him so much is because, deep down, we enjoyed watching him live out that dream.
