
# Scots mum fights for life in Greece after taking ill on family holiday to Turkey

Published at: **2019-11-06T19:32:54+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Morrow, Paul Rodger, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/daniel-morrow/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/scots-mum-fights-life-greece-20824633)

A Scots mum is fighting for her life in a Greek hospital after falling ill on a dream family holiday.
Emma Murdoch travelled to Turkey with her partner Bud Green and daughter Ellie, aged 10, for a getaway in the sun.
But the 34-year-old became unwell after her arrival and had serious breathing difficulties.
She was rushed to hospital with a suspected heart attack due to breathing problems, and was then put on a Medivac flight to Athens, Greece, for treatment - leaving her partner and daughter in Turkey.
Emma has been placed in an induced coma in Athens Medical Centre to help her to breathe, and her partner and daughter are now by her side, along with her mum, Alison, 55.
She raced to be with her daughter after getting a phone call last Monday, and left home in Port Glasgow , Inverclyde, with no idea when she will be returning.
 
Alison said: "It has been really traumatic.
"Emma has had ongoing health issues and when she had trouble breathing she was taken to hospital in Turkey.
"If she were to have stayed there I don't think she would be alive.
"It has been respiratory problems that have had a knock-on effect for everything else.
"The care she has received in Athens has been exceptional.
"The staff at the hospital including the liaison have been brilliant at keeping us informed and up to date.
"We all just want her home.
"Ellie was hoping they would be home in time to celebrate her birthday later this month.
"Family have sent voice recordings to play for Emma in the hope they will help.
"We just have to take each day as it comes and hope she improves."
 
Emma has suffered health problems in recent years and had a kidney transplant.
Alison added: "I knew I had to get there as quickly as possible.
"I grabbed a suitcase and packed and phoned my son who got me on the 4.20am train down to Manchester to catch a flight to Athens.
"Less than 24 hours after receiving the call I was there."
An insurance company is covering the costs of Emma's medical treatment.
But Alison is facing mounting costs while she stays with her daughter, and has no idea how long she will have to stay in Greece.
Generous donors raised more than £1,000 to help the family.
Alison said: "Being so far away from home has been really hard, it is horrible.
"With all the travelling back and forth to the hospital it is costing 10 Euros each way and we are up twice a day.
"I am having to pay for a hotel and food and with no idea of timescales I can't book a flight home.
"My whole focus should be on Emma and getting her better but the costs are another thing to worry about which I don't need.
"We have had so many messages of support and they are really keeping us going.
"You don't realise how many people have your back until something happens and they step up.
"I am so glad we come from Inverclyde.
"The people wear their heart on their sleeve and are so generous.
"I can't thank everyone enough for the donations and messages of support.
"We just need to take it a day at a time and hope."
To donate visit https://www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/helpemmasfamily
