
# DUP's David Simpson will not defend Upper Bann seat

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:19:00+00:00**

Author: **Digital Staff**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/generalelection/2019/11/06/news/dup-mp-david-simpson-will-not-defend-upper-bann-seat-1758232/)

Outgoing Upper Bann DUP MP David Simpson will not stand in next month's General Election, he has confirmed.
Mr Simpson has held the seat since 2005 when he unseated former Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble.
The veteran politician said "this is the right time to pass the baton on". 
Mr Simpson said it had been both a "privilege" and "deeply humbling" to represent the people of Upper Bann. 
He was embroiled in scandal last year when it emerged he had had an affair with a party colleague. He moved out of the home he shared with his wife and resigned from the Orange Order when details of the relationship with DUP councillor Louise Templeton emerged.
In a statement today Mr Simpson said: "In recent times it has been well publicised that I made a mistake that brought hurt to my wife and family as well as bringing heartache to another family. These were my mistakes and for them I am truly sorry.  I have learned from my failings and my wife and children have given me a precious second chance and together we intend to look to the future together."
He added that he looked forward "to helping and supporting the party in other facets in the future”.
DUP leader Arlene Foster thanked him for his work and said "his service has been characterised by dedication to the people who elected him and his business skills and experience were used to the benefit of Upper Bann". 
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
