
# Huawei will deploy the EMUI 10 to the P30 and Mate 20 in November

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:54:55+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/06/huawei-will-deploy-the-emui-10-stable-update-to-the-p30-and-mate-20-in-november/)

Huawei will deploy the EMUI 10 stable update to the P30 and Mate 20 in November3.8 (76.8%) 25 votes
Huawei has just updated the deployment schedule of EMUI 10 based on Android 10. Not surprisingly, the Chinese manufacturer will deploy the update on the P30, P30 Pro and the range of Mate 20 in the course of November 2019. The update will also land on the latest smartphones of the subsidiary Honor, the Honor 20 and 20 Pro.
Despite measures taken by the Trump government, Huawei continues rolling out the Android 10 update on smartphones in its catalog. This month, the final version of EMUI 10 will arrive to the latest high-end phones of the brand, Huawei announces on Weibo, the Chinese social network.
According to the schedule posted by the company, EMUI 10 will be deployed on the Huawei P30 and Huawei P30 Pro in the first days of November 201 9. From mid-month, the Android update will then be proposed on all models in the Mate 20 range. Including Huawei Mate 20, Huawei Mate 20 Pro and Huawei Mate 20 X. Alongside with the Huawei Mate 20 RS Porsche Design.
The firm has obviously taken a little advance on its predictions. According to the first online deployment schedule, the EMUI 10 update was not due until December on the Mate 20. At the end of November, the Honor 20 and Honor 20 Pro will also receive the update. Recall that these estimates are for the Chinese market. Nevertheless, international deployment, should not start much later.
In its post on Weibo, the firm recalls that 35 Huawei and Honor smartphones are compatible with the EMUI 10 update. The final update will be available for the P20 from March 2020.
