
# The Top Goalscorers This Season So Far

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:15:00+00:00**

Author: **David Kappel**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/the-top-goalscorers-this-season-so-far-1/666724)

Romelu Lukaku has now scored just one goal less than Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi combined this season, but three players are still ahead of him among the top goalscorers in Europe.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see the leading marksmen in Europe's top five leagues so far this season.
        
      
The former Manchester United striker took his tally to nine goals in Serie A in 2019/20 on Saturday, while Ronaldo and Messi have each scored five times so far in league action.
However, Jamie Vardy, Ciro Immobile and Robert Lewandowski have scored more in this campaign.
Post Selfies On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now 
The latter still leads the ranking after netting his 14th strike for Bayern Munich this season on Saturday, followed by Lazio's Immobile with 13 goals.
Leicester City forward Vardy, meanwhile, became the first Premier League player to score 10 goals in 2019/20.
Lukaku, Chelsea's Tammy Abraham, Manchester City's Sergio Aguero, Monaco's Wissam Ben Yedder and RB Leipzig's Timo Werner follow with nine strikes.

        
          Read: 10 Records Messi & Ronaldo Have Not Yet Broken
        
      
African duo Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Habib Diallo, with eight strikes each, complete the top league scorers so far in this campaign.
