
# England coach Eddie Jones hopes Rugby World Cup final will inspire nation

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:02:57+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/england-coach-eddie-jones-hopes-20787016)

Eddie Jones has warned South Africa that his England rugby heroes are coming at them with “no fear” - on a mission to inspire the nation in Saturday’s World Cup final .
For the first time in more than three years England are able to field an unchanged starting line-up, with Kyle Sinckler, Owen Farrell and Jonny May all passed fit.
And Jones promised the Springboks his team are primed to pick up from where they left off against New Zealand and power through to title glory.
“We will play with no fear,” buzzed England’s coach. “How fantastic an opportunity is this for the young bunch of guys we have? Every sporting person out there is looking at this game.
“It's the biggest sporting event on at that time, in the world. And our players get to play in that arena! They can inspire a whole country now, they can inspire a sporting community.
“All the messages from back in England say there’s a bit of a rugby fever going on; mums are telling kids “play rugby”, be the next Kyle Sinckler, be the next Ellis Genge. That’s the opportunity they’ve got.
“It changes how the country feels about itself for a period of time – it might change again at the next general election – but for a period of time it changes how people feel about themselves and that’s the greatest joy.
“If I look back at Japan and the growth of rugby there from what we did in 2015, it’s spectacular," he added, referring to his time coaching the Brave Blossoms. "People in Japan love rugby now, they didn’t before. They love the game.
“So you’ve got this opportunity to change people’s lives through the ability to play rugby, and it’s a gift isn’t it?”
South Africa, who beat England when the two countries last contested the final in 2007 and have lost only three of the 12 meetings since, are also free of injury worries.
Rassie Erasmus, who has announced he will step down as Boks boss after the final, win or lose, makes just the one change to the side which beat Wales in the semi-finals, restoring a fit-again Cheslin Kolbe to the right wing.
His team are also bidding to become history boys, with Siya Kolisi 80 minutes from becoming the first black captain to lift the Rugby World Cup.
But Erasmus admitted there are “not a lot” of weaknesses in the England side and conceded Farrell’s men possess the ability to “squeeze the life out of you”.
Jones clearly feels the same, though having been part of the Boks side which toppled England in 2007 he is not about to dismiss the threat they pose.
Having seen England reclaim top spot in the world rankings for the first time since June 2004, however, he is convinced that if he can get them to the game in a relaxed state the world is their oyster.
“It’s all about preparation,” declared Jones. “If you’re well prepared you can play without any fear - and that’s the great thing for us.
“Physically the players have done their work. They know tactically how they want to play against South Africa, emotionally they’re tight as a group.
“So that gives them the opportunity to play without any fear - and they will. They’re not worried about things, they can go out there and play their game.”

        Buy the official programme for the Rugby World Cup final for just £10 at reachsportshop.com
      
