
# Middendorp: Chiefs Will Deal With Pirates After…

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:16:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/kaizer-chiefs-aren-t-worried-about-orlando-pirates-yet/666863)

It’s all eyes on Kaizer Chiefs v Chippa United tonight, and Ernst Middendorp says that the Glamour Boys will deal with Orlando Pirates after this evening’s encounter.

        Read: Injury Update For Table-Topping Chiefs As Superstar Misses Trip
      
Chiefs could potentially extend their five-point lead further tonight if things go their way in the latest round of Absa Premiership fixtures, and their head coach is adamant that the games against so-called smaller opponents will be vital for them if they’re to have any sort of success this season.
Having lost just one game in all competitions going into the game against a Chilli Boys side that is rooted to the bottom of the log, the current table-toppers go into the tie as clear favourites, but their man in charge has called for focus. 
Speaking to Chiefs’ official website, Middendorp said, “It is these kind of games where you’re required to focus… The games that come in between the hyped matches are more critical and demand maximum attention. 
“I saw Chippa United on Sunday playing in the cup game. They were totally different from what I have seen in their previous matches. They gave Mamelodi Sundowns a good run. So, we have to be ready for them.”
But what does the German read into Amakhosi’s impressive start to the season? Not much it would appear as he added, “I don’t look at that… My focus is on the now and the preparation for the match against Chippa. 
“The Soweto Derby coming up on the weekend is a big match of course, but we will only deal with that after the Chippa game. This is when you have to work on the mindset of the team. We must be responsible and not lose focus.”

        Read: Amakhosi Star - It’s No Different For Sundowns & Pirates…
      
Chiefs haven’t won five away games in a row since the start of the 2014/15 season when they last clinched the league title, though that could change tonight with three points in Port Elizabeth.

        Check out some Amakhosi selection news in the gallery below:
      
  

        
          Post Selfie’s On Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App & Earn Airtime and more! Download Now
        
      
