
# EastEnders horror as Louise's confession leaves Dennis in danger as Mel takes revenge

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:59:59+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Tutton**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/eastenders-horror-louises-confession-leaves-20818478)

EastEnders aired dramatic scenes for Sharon Mitchell on Tuesday night, as teenage son Dennis appeared to be in danger.
Mel Owen stepped up her vendetta against her rival yet again, weeks on from blackmailing her over her affair with Keanu Taylor.
Sharon is currently pregnant with Keanu's baby, while her stepdaughter Louise Mitchell who is engaged to the mechanic is also expecting a baby with him.
Mel knows the truth about everything, while Sharon has warned her away after learning Mel was hiding killer son Hunter Owen from the police before his death in September - when he took hostages in the pub.
 
In the latest episode, Mel decided to show Sharon she was boss and amped up her blackmailing yet again.
She revealed her grief over Hunter's death, with her instead spoiling goddaughter Louise to make up for the fact she could not celebrate her son's own birthday.
One moment in particular led to Mel targeting Sharon yet again though, as Louise thanked her "two mums".
Mel was expecting her to be one of them only for Louise to thank real mum Lisa Fowler, and stepmother Sharon.
Sharon then met Mel in the toilets to boast, only for Mel to reveal her suffering over the loss of her son.
It's then that she made it clear to Sharon she was not to be messed with, and that her secret regarding keeping Hunter from the police wasn't going to be enough to keep her away.
 
Mel then left Sharon fearing she was going to lose her own son by leaving Dennis in danger, pretending to put pills in his beer.
Sharon raced Dennis out into the pub kitchen in a bid to make him throw up the drugs and the alcohol, only to realise Mel was pranking her.
As a confused Dennis left the kitchen, a terrified Sharon hit out at Mel who then claimed she was giving her a glimpse of the pain of losing a child.
Sharon quickly realised she had nothing on Mel who was determined to make her pay yet again, ahead of deadly scenes next week.

        EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm, and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30pm on BBC One.
      
