
# Beauden Barrett Calls For Continuity In Head Coach Decision

Published at: **2019-11-05T10:53:15+00:00**

Author: **Marisa Kennedy**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/rugby/kennedymarisa760/beauden-barrett-foster-head-coach/)


        Beauden Barrett has appeared to throw his support behind Ian Foster to succeed Steve Hansen as the New Zealand head coach.
      
Hansen stepped down from the role following the All Blacks’ 40-17 victory over Wales in the Rugby World Cup Bronze Final after eight years in charge.
Barrett was speaking to media as the side arrived back in New Zealand following their lengthy campaign in Tokyo and when the former World Rugby Player of the Year was asked if he would like to see Foster as the next coach, he called for continuity.
“I’ve really loved worked with Fozzie over the last eight years,” Barrett told the New Zealand Herald.
“He’s a very intelligent coach. A great team man and hopefully we can have some continuity going forward”.
Should he be selected, Foster has big shoes to fill following Hansen’s impressive reign as head coach. Though he failed to steer his side back to the World Cup decider, the 60-year-old 93 wins from 107 tests since 2012, including the final in 2015.
“Steve’s legacy is a very strong one. His win percentage speaks for itself. I think the biggest thing with Steve is the way he makes his players’ feel. Trust and confidence. We know that he 100 percent has our back. As a player that’s all you can really ask for.
“He’s taught me a lot along the way and I’m very lucky for that,” the All Blacks fullback said.
Meanwhile, Barrett congratulated Rassie Erasmus and South Africa on lifting the Webb Ellis Cup following their dominant win over England at the weekend, while he also added that it was nice to see a Southern Hemisphere side retain the title.
“To be fair we were probably supporting them. It’s nice to see a southern hemisphere team and players that we are so familiar with and have friendships with lift the trophy. If it couldn’t be us, we were encouraging them to win,” he said.
