
# Former Labour minister Ian Austin urges 'decent' people to vote for Boris Johnson in general election

Published at: **2019-11-07T09:14:07+00:00**

Author: **Joe Curtis**

Original: [City A.M.](https://www.cityam.com/former-labour-minister-ian-austin-urges-decent-people-to-vote-for-boris-johnson-in-general-election/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Former Labour minister Ian Austin has urged “decent, traditional” voters to back Boris Johson in December’s general election.
He said Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is “totally unfit to lead this country” and lambasted the party’s economic policies, claiming they “would leave our country worse off”.
“I think their [Labour’s] economic policies would make our country worse off not better off,” he told the BBC’s Today programme.
“I think they would chase away investment. I think they would put businesses and jobs at risk. I think Jeremy Corbyn’s Brexit policy is a completely fantasy.”
Austin also revealed he would not be standing as an independent candidate inhis Dudly North constituency, as he had previously suggested when he quit Labour.
The scathing attack follows deputy Labour leader Tom Watson’s decision to step down from politics at the next election.
Austin said: “If Tom thought that Jeremy Corbyn was fit to lead our country and fit to form a government, would he really be standing down?”
“Anybody who has spoken to Tom knows what he thinks about Jeremy Corbyn’s leadership. More importantly, they know how appalled he is, like so many other people, by the scandal of antisemitism that has poisoned the Labour party under Jeremy Corbyn’s leadership.”

        More to follow.
      
