
# 5 Brilliant Ways To Enjoy Foie Gras Before New York City Ban Begins

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Aly Walansky**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/alywalansky/2019/11/04/5-brilliant-ways-to-enjoy-foie-gras-before-new-york-city-ban-begins/)

Foie Gras has long been a delicacy enjoyed by many, but also attached to some controversy. This dish, involving liver of a duck or goose, is rich and fatty, all the ingredients of a proper indulgence. However, because of the method in which the duck or goose’s liver is fattened, there’s been a lot of backlash, and now foie gras has been banned in a few places. First, it was banned in California, and now it was just banned in New York City.Restaurants have a few years before the ban takes effect, though. So for anyone who truly loves foie gras, here’s some special dishes that incorporate it. These are all in New York City, where the ban will go into effect in 2022. There’s time to enjoy them while you still can!

         Hudson Valley Foie Gras Flambe 
      
At  Delmonico’s Restaurant in New York City, the foie gras is served with blueberries, celery, and fennel. “Foie Gras is very rich in flavor and fat. In this dish, we add earthy and acidic ingredients to compliment it. The savory blueberry thyme sponge, celery fennel chutney and pickled blueberries creates a perfect juxtaposition of textures and flavors.  This is one of our popular dishes,” said executive chef of Delmonico's Restaurant Billy Oliva.

        NoMad Roast Chicken
      
Possibly one of the most beloved chicken dishes in the country, the whole roast chicken for two at the NoMad is stuffed with foie gras, black truffle and brioche that is placed under the skin of the chicken to create an incredibly rich and flavorful dish with a gorgeous presentation.

         Foie Gras Tartelette
      
At Aquavit in New York City, served as an amuse, diners can begin the chef's tasting with a Foie Gras Tartelette served with sea buckthorn. "It's a classic whole wheat tartlet filled with foie gras mousse and is topped with sea buckthorn gel and fleur de sel. The balance between the fatty foie gras and the bright sea buckthorn is a perfect combination. You need something as bright as sea buckthorn to break through the fat that is in the foie gras,” said chef Emma Bengtsson of Aquavit.

        Pan-Seared Hudson Valley Foie Gras 
      
At the new Upper East Side restaurant Ivy Lane, chef Sung Park impresses the neighborhood with his American menu blended with Asian and French influences. Guests can relish on his pan-seared Hudson Valley Foie Gras placed on top of toasted brioche served with roasted grapes, cherry puree, and fig Brûlée - a lovely rich combination of sweet and savory! 
"I use Hudson Valley foie gras for my dish and simply season it with salt and pepper. Additionally, the grapes, come from upstate NY. The  seasonal fruits in the dish add a sweet-sour flavor when paired with seared foie gras,” said chef Sung Park of Ivy Lane.

        House-Cured Terrine of Hudson Valley Foie Gras 
      
Entering its twentieth year on the New York City dining scene, the casual elegant restaurant Tocqueville is known for serving French-American inspired fare. Executive Chef Marco Moreira gives Foie Gras lovers two options to get their fix before the ban takes place in 2022.
They can enjoy an appetizer of House Cured Terrine of Hudson Valley Foie Gras with fruit chutney served with poached fig in a spiced red wine reduction. "The foie gras is marinated with salt sugar and wine, pressed into a terrine and sets for 72 hours before it's ready to be served. It is on the menu year-round with seasonal accompaniments and is one of the best selling appetizers on the Tocqueville menu. It is an honest to god terrine de foie gras, just like in France,” said Marco Moriera, executive chef and proprietor at Tocqueville.  
