
# Cara Delevingne and girlfriend Ashley Benson targeted by stalker in their home

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:52:16+00:00**

Author: **James Brinsford, https://www.facebook.com/james.brinsford**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/cara-delevingne-girlfriend-ashley-benson-20837761)

Cara Delevingne has been targeted by a stalker who has been seen creeping around her house.
The 27-year-old British supermodel is reportedly 'terrified' after the intrusion in to her property in Los Angeles.
Cara shares the house with her girlfriend Ashley Benson, 29, and her 33-year-old elder sister, actress Poppy Delevingne.
The model was stunned to see the appearance of a man on her CCTV footage, who was creeping around her home while they were out.
A friend of Cara has told The Sun that the intruder "really creeped her out," and that the model "has been quick to respond," and is "upping security on the property."
The friend went on to say that "it’s hugely unsettling and is every celebrity’s worst nightmare."
The intrusion has come after Cara and Poppy were involved in a photoshoot feature at their property for a US magazine.
There were several picture from inside the house, including snaps of Cara and Poppy's bedrooms.
The feature also showed off that their LA pad has a Mexican-themed toilet, a swimming pool and a "powder room".
The two-storey house has been modelled on a Playboy mansion and comes with a stripper pole and bar in a soundproof bunker.
Cara and Poppy bought the house in 2017 for £1.56million, from actor Jared Leto.
Poppy has said that she is the one who has inspired how the property looks and told the magazine: "Basically, I’m a control freak."
Cara has also recently confessed to having wild nights out with Fleabag creator Phoebe Waller-Bridge.
The Vogue model said that night ended with them urinating on the grass outside of a branch of the fast food chain.
She described the ordeal as "hysterical".
Speaking about how the evening developed, she told Cosmopolitan : "I think me and Phoebe peed on the lawn outside of a drive-thru McDonald's.
"It was hysterical - we needed to pee so badly but we were on a party bus and we were like, 'let's get out at McDonald's'.
"They wouldn't let us use the toilets so we just peed outside on the lawn outside it."
Cara unveiled more details of the night out, adding: "She's one of my really close friends. She's a babe.
"I was with her last week - I had a reunion with a lot of my English girlfriends and she came long and she was the person there that no one knew, because she's my newest friend."

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
      
