
# Liam Charles’ no-waste recipe for carrot and parsnip cookies

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:30:22+00:00**

Author: **Liam Charles**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/food/2019/nov/02/liam-charles-no-waste-recipe-for-carrot-and-parsnip-cookies)


        ‘Compost cookies’ might not sound appealing, but the all-in root veg gives these biscuits a lovely chewy bite
      
Yes, we are using the whole carrot and parsnip to make these compost cookies – peel and all. The earthy root veg complements the sweetness of the cookie perfectly. Check it: they’re super-tasty.
These are best eaten the day they’re made, but will keep for up to two days in an airtight container.
Prep 30 minChill 30 minCook 20 minMakes 15
350g plain flour100g oats ½ tsp baking powder2 tsp mixed spice 150g unsalted butter, softened100g soft light brown sugar1 medium egg, beaten2 carrots, finely grated 2 parsnips, finely grated Zest and juice of 1 orange
Put the flour, oats, baking powder and mixed spice in a large bowl. In another bowl, beat the butter, sugar and honey until creamy.
Beat the eggs into the butter mix, then add the grated carrot and parsnip, and the orange zest and juice. Tip in the dry ingredients and mix slowly to form a dough.
Line a baking tray with greaseproof paper. Flour your hands, then divide the dough into 15 balls, flattening each one into a thin disc with the palm of your hand: transfer to the tray and pop in the fridge to chill for 30 minutes.
Heat the oven to 200C (180C fan)/390F/gas 6. Bake the cookies for 20 minutes, or until golden brown. Leave on the tray to cool a little and firm up, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

        
          This article contains affiliate links, which means we may earn a small commission if a reader clicks through and makes a purchase. All our journalism is independent and is in no way influenced by any advertiser or commercial initiative. By clicking on an affiliate link, you accept that third-party cookies will be set. More information.
        
      
