
# Youngest EuroMillions Winner, Jane Park, Suffers Miscarriage

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:13:20+00:00**

Author: **Emma Rosemurgey**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/celebrity/youngest-euromillions-winner-jane-park-suffers-miscarriage/)


        EuroMillions winner Jane Park has suffered a miscarriage just weeks after revealing she was expecting her first child.
      
Advertisements
The heartbroken 23-year-old said she was ‘emotionally exhausted’ while telling her social media followers ‘this pregnancy just wasn’t meant to be.’
The devastating news come just says after Jane showed off her baby bump, saying finding out she was going to be a mum completely out weighed the excitement of seeing her winning numbers on the lottery.
Advertisements

        She wrote:
      

        Just a couple of weeks ago, Jane told the Mirror:
      
Jane was 13 weeks into her pregnancy and was looking forward to co-parenting with her baby’s father, a friend called Barry.
23-year-old Jane, from Edinburgh, shot to fame in 2013 when she won £1,000,000 on the Euromillions after buying her first ever lucky dip ticket at the age of 17.
Advertisements
Her first few purchases after winning included a £25,000 BMW, a £17,000 VW Beetle and an £18,000 Range Rover.
However, she later considered suing lottery bosses in 2017 after claiming winning the money at such a young age ruined her life.

        At the time, Jane told various different news outlets:
      
Advertisements
Our thoughts are with Jane at this sad time.

        If you have experienced a bereavement and would like to speak with someone in confidence contact Cruse Bereavement Care via their national helpline on 0808 808 1677.
      

        Emma Rosemurgey
      
Emma Rosemurgey is an NCTJ trained Journalist at UNILAD. She graduated from the University of Central Lancashire in Preston and started her career in regional newspapers before joining the LADbible Group team in 2017.
