
# Foiled Sulu blast linked to ISIS leader’s killing

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:23:29+00:00**

Author: **Zaida Delos Reyes**

Original: [Journal Online](https://journal.com.ph/news/nation/foiled-sulu-blast-linked-isis-leaders-killing)

This was confirmed yesterday by Lt. Col. Gerald Monfort, spokesperson of Joint Task Force Sulu.
Monfort said the suspected terrorists consisted of two Egyptians who were father and son, were known as “Abdulramil” and “Abdurahman” and a third suspect, a member of Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), identified only as “James.”
Report reaching Camp Aguinaldo showed that the encounter occurred at around 4:50 p.m. in Sitio Itawon, Barangay Kan Islam, Indanan, Sulu.
“The foiled suicide bombing among 3 terror member, 2 of whom are foreigners, could be a retaliation to the recent killing of the ISIS leader in Syria,” said AFP Western Mindanao Command (Wesmincom), Commander Lt Gen. Cirilito Sobejana.
Monfort said the terrorists were about to carry out their suicide bombing mission in Metro Jolo when they encountered government forces conducting military operation to arrest foreign terrorists in the area.
The report said the terrorists fired at the apprehending AFP personnel from the 41st Infantry Battalion and 1102nd Infantry Brigade when they were flagged down along the national road in Indanan, Sulu.
The incident prompted the government forces to fire back which caused the instant death of the three suspects.
Monfort said the foreign terrorists were allegedly the husband and son of the foreign suicide bomber who attacked a military post in KM3, Brgy. Tagbak, Indanan, Sulu on September 8, 2019.
Recovered from the terrorists were one Cal.45 pistol with ammunition, one hand grenade, and two vests with explosives and triggering devices identical to the vest used by the suicide bombers during the two IED attacks in Brgy Tanjung, Indanan, Sulu on June 28 and on September 8 of this year.
Philippine Army’s 1102nd Infantry Brigade Commander Colonel Ignatihs Patrimonio commended the troops in their successful operation that save the lives of the target of the mission.
Major General Corleto S Vinluan Jr, the Commander of the JTF Sulu, lauded the military personnel who carried out the military operations for their superb planning and execution to apprehend the suicide bombers.
“The AFP in Sulu will continue to hunt down all the remaining ASG members in Sulu. Hence, I urge them to surrender and live a normal life instead of being hunted down as fleeing criminals and a disgrace to the peace-loving Tausug Community” warned by  Vinluan.
For his part, AFP- Western Mindanao Command (Westmincom) commander Lt. Gen. Cirilito Sobejana said  the two foreigners  , a father and a son, were among the eight suspected  foreign terrorists in the military watchlist.
