
# Kevin Feige Confirms You’ll Need To Watch Disney Plus Marvel Shows To Keep Up With The Movie MCU

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/07/kevin-feige-confirms-youll-need-to-watch-disney-plus-marvel-shows-to-keep-up-with-the-movie-mcu/)

Disney+ is on the verge of its initial launch, which will be next week on Tuesday, November 12th. While the highest profile launch with the service will be The Mandalorian, set in the Star Wars universe, Marvel offerings are…more or less missing for the time being.In addition to not having anywhere near the full slate of MCU movies (due to ongoing rights issues), there are no high profile Marvel shows launching with the service on the 12th, which include (via TechRadar)
But with that said, in a recent interview with Bloomberg (via Julia Alexander), Marvel chief creative officer Kevin Feige has made it clear that if you want to keep up with the ongoing slate of Marvel Cinematic Universe movies, you will indeed need to be watching the Disney+ shows on the side as well:
“If you want to understand everything in future Marvel movies, he says, you’ll probably need a Disney+ subscription, because events from the new shows will factor into forthcoming films such as Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness. The Scarlet Witch will be a key character in that movie, and Feige points out that the Loki series will tie in, too. “I’m not sure we’ve actually acknowledged that before.” “
This will bring back some…somewhat unpleasant memories for Marvel fans who have attempted to keep up with Marvel’s “integrated” TV offerings to date. There’s a series like Agents of SHIELD, which managed to be good in its own right, but over time completely divorced itself from the MCU to a point where it’s unreasonable to say the two have been connected in any real way for years now. And then there’s the now-dead slate of Netflix shows, Daredevil, The Punisher, Jessica Jones and the like, which were technically supposed to be in the MCU as well, yet there were zero actual meaningful crossovers across 10+ seasons of all the shows, including a reportedly scrapped storyline where Daredevil was meant to join Captain America: Civil War (Spider-Man took his place once that Sony deal happened).
The Disney+ era is going to be a lot different.
While some of these shows do have echoes of the current series, She-Hulk, Moon Knight and so on, many of them are directly integrated into the MCU, starring the same characters, including shows that will be featuring Hawkeye, Scarlet Witch, Vision, Loki, Winter Soldier and Falcon, to name a few. While it’s possible all the shows may connect to the MCU more than ever, Feige is now saying outright that in order to be fully on top of the MCU, you will have to watch, say, WandaVision in order to be prepare for Scarlet Witch’s role in the new Doctor Strange movie. And it’s easy to imagine how else that could play out. Loki is probably essential viewing for any future Thor offering. Hawkeye is probably going to train Kate Bishop (Hailee Steinfeld) to join the full-on Avengers in his stead at some point.
In short, Disney is making Disney+ more or less essential to the MCU in a way that all these other standalone series have not been to this point, standalone series that are almost all nearly dead now, or about to be (SHIELD, the last bastion, is closing down soon after seven seasons).
This is not a huge surprise, given the focus of these already announced shows, but as Feige says, it’s the first time they’ve acknowledged how important Disney+ offerings will be for the larger MCU picture. As ever, I will be watching it all.
