
# Blu-ray Review: ‘The Kitchen’ Does Everything Better Than Joaquin Phoenix’s ‘Joker’

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Luke Y. Thompson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/lukethompson/2019/11/06/blu-ray-review-the-kitchen-does-everything-better-than-joaquin-phoenixs-joker/)

Yes, I have a favorite period film this year set in a major city decades ago, based on a comic book, and featuring a nice protagonist’s inevitable fall into amorality and murder, via a story that was probably inspired by more than one Martin Scorsese movie. And no, it isn’t Joker - it’s The Kitchen, out this week on Blu-ray and VOD. I would seem to be relatively alone in this choice as the movie made only $15.8 million worldwide on a budget of $38 million. Yet I doubt anyone is shocked that the movie with the male protagonist and familiar IP got more attention than the alternate take starring three women.It’s not all down to any kind of gender bias, though. The Kitchen was poorly promoted, mostly with posters featuring the three leads in generic poses with no indication what the story was. And since two of the leads – Melissa McCarthy and Tiffany Haddish – are known primarily for comedy, the pictures of them looking serious and not-wacky only sold the notion of “the actresses you like, but not doing the stuff you like them to do.” For those who saw it and contributed to a shockingly low 22% on Rotten Tomatoes, it mainly failed by comparison to Steve McQueen’s Oscar hopeful Widows. Comparisons, I would posit, that are misplaced: Widows is an artful heist movie, while The Kitchen is an origin/downfall story. There are no superheroes here, but some of the late plot developments feel very much out of a clever comic, even though at least one was added for the movie.
Directed by a woman – Straight Outta Compton writer Andrea Berloff – the adaptation pointedly lacks the male gaze of the comic miniseries. The protagonists were drawn as young women with superheroine-perfect bodies, with only Elisabeth Moss looking anything like her counterpart. And the character of Ruby wasn’t African-American originally; casting Haddish isn’t just colorblind but better, as a new subplot about racism gives more depth to her motives.
Like Arthur Fleck, lead characters Ruby, Kathy (McCarthy) and Claire (Moss) lose their financial support unexpectedly, in this case when all of their criminal husbands get sent to prison. The promise of possible extended familial support (Thomas Wayne in Joker, the larger Irish mob here), proves basically non-existent, and when they get further persecuted and threatened for trying to make it on their own, they start pushing back. And it feels so good they do it more. Eventually, corpses pile up, and respect must be sustained with a body count. But can they truly count on each other in situations so tense a normal person might crack?
At first, the viewer may wonder why they should sympathize. The women’s first thought is that they can offer a better, more efficient use of protection money, in which protection is actually given. The idea that the inherent extortion of this arrangement can be noble and benevolent is naive at best, downright evil at worst. But as things move along, it turns out that’s the point. One cannot just get involved in protection rackets and remain clean-handed or good. Firstly, to keep it going, taking out or intimidating rivals on that turf becomes paramount. And a person takes one life, even if it’s in self-defense, more become easier.
Is the fall into amorality inevitable? The only antidote, perhaps, was that these women should never have married mobsters in the first place. This idea isn’t glossed over completely – Kathy ultimately blames her father for raising her in mob territory, under the logic that it was inevitable to end up with a criminal purely based on geography. By this time we know Kathy’s point of view is not, shall we say, true North, so the fact that it sounds more like an excuse than a motive is intentional.
The nice thing is that there are genuine plot surprises along the way, as well as transfixing moments you haven’t seen before. Moss eagerly paying attention to Domhnall Gleeson’s instructions how to dismember a body before disposal is a new classic, and the ending feels like something a clever comic-book writer came up with rather than a typical screenplay finish. The slide into amorality is inevitable, but unlike Joker, the precise journey there and the subsequent resolution isn’t. Comics in the ‘90s embraced new ways of telling stories like this, but we seem not to be there in terms of comic-book movie audiences just yet. Hell, with more movies like this one we might just convince Martin Scorsese these things are cinema within his lifetime.
Extras are scant, with a couple of brief BTS featurettes and one deleted scene. WB doesn’t even seem to have hopes for this film on video. But I do. It’s a whole lot of things people say they want, done well – diverse female casting and direcion, strong and flawed women in charge, and pushing the boundaries of what a comic-book movie can be. And if you must compare it to Widows – it is way less self-serious.
That should be a good thing.
