
# OnePlus Will Keep Releasing Two Smartphones At The Same Time

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:47:15+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/oneplus-will-keep-releasing-two-smartphones-at-the-same-time.html)

The CEO of OnePlus, Pete Lau, has confirmed that the company will stick to its two-phone strategy. He confirmed that in an interview with Times of India, as he talked about the company's strategy moving forward.
OnePlus has started utilizing the two-phone strategy earlier this year. The whole deal started with the OnePlus 7 and 7 Pro, and it continued with the OnePlus 7T and 7T Pro.
The company's CEO explained how this strategy works. OnePlus essentially releases two flagship smartphones, but one is more premium than the other, and more expensive. That way, users have access to two great phones, and can get the more affordable one if they can't afford the more premium one.
Advertisement
In the past, the company released two flagship smartphones a year, not at the same time. In May or June, the company released one flagship, and the other followed in Q4.
Well, the release cycle remains unchanged, but OnePlus now deploys the two-phone strategy, with two phones at the same time. So the company basically doubles the number of phones it releases a year. Well, if you count the company's 5G device, it's more than four.
OnePlus' CEO added that the company wants to provide the best user experience, and this two-phone strategy is a part of that.
Advertisement
As an example, he took the Indian market. He said that the price of the OnePlus 7 Pro is not exactly that affordable for Indian consumers. Well, the OnePlus 7 gives them a chance to get a phone with very few compromises compared to the OnePlus 7 Pro, and it's considerably more affordable, and thus more approachable for them.
The OnePlus 7T and 7T Pro were actually announced quite recently. Despite that, the OnePlus 8 and 8 Pro had leaked already.
Those two phones are expected to debut in mid-2020, so we're still far away from their announcement(s). That is unless OnePlus opts to change its release cycle, and that's not as likely.
Advertisement
The OnePlus 8 and 8 Pro will resemble the OnePlus 7 Pro and 7T Pro quite a bit, but they will include a display camera hole it seems. That will be the case if you believe the leaked renders provided by OnLeaks.
That tipster is usually spot on when it comes to leaks, so chances are he's right this time around as well. Both devices will offer a curved display, while the OnePlus 8 will be a bit smaller than the 8 Pro.
Both devices will ship with Android 10, and will be fueled by the yet-unannounced Snapdragon 865. You can also expect plenty of RAM to be included, along with high refresh rate displays.
Advertisement
