
# Christmas Wine Survivor fundraising event runs Dec. 7th

Published at: **2019-11-02T18:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mark Weber**

Original: [The Stettler Independent](https://www.stettlerindependent.com/news/christmas-wine-survivor-fundraising-event-runs-dec-7th/)

Don’t miss out on the seasonal fun of the Christmas Wine Survivor fundraising event – all in support of the Stettler Public Library.
Entry fee is $20 plus a bottle of win (with a minimum value of $15).
The ‘elimination’ party runs Dec. 7th at 7:30 p.m.
“Basically, we are selling 200 tickets to the Christmas Wine Survivor, and it’s actually an elimination – which means you buy a $20 ticket and bring us a $15 bottle of wine,” explained Gayle Tennant of the Friends of the Library. “As we pull numbers from one to 200, you can win up to 30 per cent of the wine that has been given,” she said.
Second place takes home 20 per cent of the wine and third place receives 20 per cent of the wine as well.
Those who end up in fourth, fifth and sixth place all received 10 per cent of the collected wine each.
During the elimination party, there will also be lots of treats, food, drink and entertainment to enjoy as well.
“You can come as part of the Christmas party, too,” Tennant noted of the festivities.
This year marks the second year for Wine Survivor, and it got off to a strong start last year with 148 tickets sold, said Tennant. The idea came from a similar event Tennant had attended previously.
“We decided to make it an event. We said, ‘Let’s bring people into the library; let’s let people see what the library is all about. Let’s make this an annual event right here’.
“To come up with something that is uniquely ours, that we can do once a year and that can bring in money, but can also bring people into the library – that’s our mandate. We can do that by having this event,” she explained.
“This year we also want to sell all 200 tickets of course, because the more tickets we sell the more money we raise for the library – plus, the more bottles of win you can win,” she added with a smile.
Feedback from last year’s inaugural event was very encouraging, too.
“I’ve had people stop me on the street and say, ‘I want a ticket!’”
Another thing to remember during a busy season is that you don’t have to actually attend the Wine Survivor evening to win, she said.
And as mentioned, proceeds from the Christmas Wine Survivor will go to the establishment of an equipment lending library, where folks will be able to borrow everything from snow shoes to bocce ball sets, said Library Manager Rhonda O’Neill.
“A number of libraries in the area have started lending libraries with bicycles and skis. That way, people can try these things before they invest in them,” she explained.
”Or if it’s something you only want to do once a year with your friends, you can just borrow the equipment,” she said.
Meanwhile, in a move to help folks gear up for Christmas Wine Survivor, another fun event is slated for Nov. 16th at 7 p.m.
‘Wine Down a Little’ will feature Alana Skocdopole of Model Milk who will lead folks through a ‘world of wine’ that evening.
Learn about the notes and flavours of different wines and what pairs well with them during the fascinating session.
This particular event, which will also be held at the Stettler Public Library, is for those 18 and up, and is open to members and invited guests only (memberships are free).
Tickets are $12. “It’s a ‘boot camp’ for Wine Survivor,” said O’Neill with a laugh. “That way, you can know what pairs well when you win it all!”
For more information about Wine Down a Little or Christmas Wine Survivor, call the Library at 403-742-2292.
