
# Arsene Wenger open to Bayern Munich job as German giants make former Arsenal boss their No.1 target

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsene-wenger-open-bayern-munich-20826436)

Arsene Wenger is open to making a sensational return to management with Bayern Munich.
The German giants have got the former Arsenal manager at the top of their list after Ralf Rangnick ruled himself out of the running.
Wenger, who turned 70 last month, is understood to be open to the opportunity and is now ready to talk to Bayern who sacked Niko Kovac earlier this week.
Frenchman Wenger was close to getting the job last season during a poor run of form for Bayern but Kovac turned things around but the final straw was a 5-1 defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt at the weekend.
It is understood that Bayern are keen on Wenger until the end of the season whereas he has not wanted a temporary role and that could yet be a sticking point.
They are believed to be interested in Thomas Tuchel, of PSG, and Ajax’s Erik ten Hag as a long term target while Max Allegri and Jose Mourinho have been linked.
Wenger, who earned £8m-a-year at Arsenal, has not hidden his desire to return to management and that is the reason why he has stalled on an offer from FIFA to become their new technical director.
Now the chance to return to management with Bayern would be hard to turn down for Wenger who has stayed living in London while also doing regular TV work for beIN Sports.
The closest Wenger has come closest to a return to management with Japanese club Vissel Kobe but could not agree on a start date in the summer.
But Wenger confirmed to beIN Sports that he could be interested in Bayern and misses day-to-day coaching.
Wenger said: “‘Of course! Coaching was my whole life until now and everybody who has coached will tell you the same.
“You miss the intensity. There’s some things you miss a lot, and some things you don’t miss. So I enjoyed as well things I don’t miss too much.
“But on the other hand, winning football games, preparing a team for a game, developing players and getting satisfaction and shared emotions is something that you miss.
“So of course yes, I was responsible at 33 years of age and coached until 69 without interruption at top level. So that is 36 years without stopping.
“So on the other hand, even if I miss it, to get a little bit out of that pressure for a year was not too bad for me – people who know me well say I’m more relaxed, it’s true!”
