
# Support for abortion is absolutely incompatible with Christian faith

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:59:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/opinion/letterstotheeditor/2019/11/04/news/support-for-abortion-is-absolutely-incompatible-with-christian-faith-1754116/)

Tom Kelly thinks that we need to leave “room for doubt” on a crucial moral issue such as abortion and he attempts to recruit both Moses and Pope Francis to justify his views (October 28).
None of us would claim to “have all the answers to all the questions”. Nevertheless, on matters of crucial importance, God’s clarity in His own revelation to humanity is absolutely crystal clear.
Furthermore, God expects His servants to present His entire and unadulterated message – not some woolly-headed, half-baked and self-serving interpretation.The sinful actions of some priests are no excuse for our being negligent in that regard. Souls are at risk.
As regards Moses, the Lord left no room for doubt when He gave Moses the Ten Commandments by which we all must strive to live.
The fifth commandment is “Thou shalt not kill” (Exodus 20:13). It forbids the deliberate and intentional taking of human life and the Church, since the earliest times, has clearly understood that abortion is such a destruction of an nnocent life.
On the matter of whether pro-abortion-choice politicians should receive Holy Communion, Pope Francis, whom Mr Kelly tries to use to justify his “leave room for doubt” notions of morality, has said:
“You cannot receive Holy Communion and at the same time act with deeds or words against the commandments, particularly when abortion, euthanasia, and other grave crimes against life and family are encouraged” (Letter to the bishops of Argentina, May 7, 2013).
No “leaving room for doubt” there by the Holy Father. Support for abortion is absolutely incompatible with the Catholic and Christian Faith.
“If the trumpet make an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for battle?” (1 Corinthians 14:8). God expects us to “cry aloud and spare not” (Isaiah 58:1). Those who preach God’s Word are required, not to be popular, but to be faithful to God’s Truth (II Timothy 4:2-3).
FR PATRICK McCAFFERTYBelfast BT12
 

        People of Northern Ireland should be allowed to have abortion referendum
      
The British government has made abortion legal in Northern Ireland without consulting the voters of the province of Ulster which I think is undemocratic.This  shows the area of Northern Ireland as nothing more than a colony of Britain and not an equal member of the United Kingdom. I never thought that I would be in agreement with the DUP but they are against the abortion of unborn babies, as am I.
I’m so very sorry that the Sinn Féin MLAs did not turn up at the Stormont debate to stop Boris Johnson’s government pushing abortion on Northern Ireland and that Sinn Féin leaders were on the same page as the British. Many rank and file members of Sinn Féin are against abortion, yet the leadership forbids them to voice their objection to the abortion debate, which make the leaders of that party to be undemocratic in practice.
The people of Northern Ireland they should be allowed to have referendum to see if they want abortion instead of Boris Johnson’s government bulldozing it into law over the heads of the people.
There is talk about a second referendum about Brexit. Would the Irish government let the people of the Republic to also have a second referendum about abortion as nearly half the southern people voted against it last time. It got though only by a tiny majority. Not all of the Irish people are liberally minded as the powers that be would have you believe.
MARTIN FORDSligo, Co Sligo
 

        Rotten nature of capitalism
      
The recent tragic deaths of 39 migrant workers trying to get into the UK is another reminder of the rotten nature of the capitalism and the state in which people are criminalised in search of a better future for their families. We must also remember that millions of people have migrated from Ireland over the generations – north and south – in search of a better life, fleeing inequality, injustice and poverty, over the past couple of hundred years.
Fortress Europe, with border controls, armed guards and concentration camps is alive and kicking. This has brutal consequences for those seeking escape from persecution – often fleeing western-sponsored oppressive regimes and conflicts that our governments instigated. These border polices are motivated and perpetuated by greed, promoted by those in power, and is festering in ignorance and misplaced fear.
I believe in a world with no borders where people are free to travel the world and settle where they wish, not just a freedom that should be extended only to capital and wealthy elites who, supported by nation states, continue to subject humanity to exploitation, domination and wars.
SEAN MATTHEWSCrumlin, Co Antrim
 

        Society has lost its identity
      
Having seen Joker in the cinema, I can now see that the Comic Book villain is an embodiment of a society that has no God whatsoever.
Ever since the end of the Second World War, America has relentlessly pursued a resurrection of the Roman Empire to de-Christianise Europe and the Commonwealth. The invasions of the Middle East and the creation of ethnic conflict – as our Troubles and the Balkan War – were all planned to turn us into Gotham City.
Our society has no identity anymore. Yet, Christians in our country argue over chicken-and-egg arguments over doctrine. We have been distracted.
DESMOND DEVLINArdboe, Co Tyrone
