
# Simon Cowell 'does a Coleen Rooney' to catch culprit who leaked birthday plans

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:40:39+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/simon-cowell-does-coleen-rooney-20800765)

Simon Cowell is 'doing a Coleen Rooney' as he tries to track down who leaked his birthday invitations.
Simon, 60, is not at all happy that news of his big bash got out.
According to The Sun , he was due to have dinner at trendy Chelsea restaurant La Famiglia.
That was suddenly postponed but the Celebrity X Factor judge is not happy the invites were seen by people not on his 80-strong guestlist.
Now he wants to find out who has been sending them around - and he has taken inspiration from Mrs Rooney as he looks to get to the bottom of it.
She accused Rebekah Vardy, the wife of Leicester City striker Jamie, of selling stories on her in a public spat last month.
Simon will also play detective as he attempts to find the guilty party.
“No stone is being left unturned; Simon and his team are on a mission," a source said.
“Inspired by Coleen and her intrepid Wagatha Christie efforts, Simon is wading through his party list, trying to figure out possible motives: greed, publicity, desperation or revenge.
“The invites were all sent out from a secure email address, so this is being looked at, too.
"Simon can be quite the sleuth when he puts his mind to it - the culprit should be quaking in their Louboutins.”
The music mogul called his celebration off and blamed a diary clash.
The cancellation notice read: "Dear all, I am so sorry but this dinner is cancelled/postponed.
"Scheduling conflicts unfortunately are prohibiting us from having this dinner at this time.
"We will keep you posted as to when it will be rescheduled for."
