
# Ex-Browns defensive back Jermaine Whitehead apologizes for threatening critics on social media

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:20:45+00:00**

Author: **Ryan Gaydos**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/browns-jermaine-whitehead-apologizes-threats-social-media)

Former Cleveland Browns defensive back Jermaine Whitehead apologized Tuesday for threatening fans and the media in the wake of his team’s loss to the Denver Broncos.
Whitehead, who the Browns released Monday, said in an Instagram post that there was “no excuse” for his actions and that his outburst was “totally out of character for me.”

        
          SPORTS BROADCASTER KEVIN HARLAN GIVES DRAMATIC PLAY-BY-PLAY OF BLACK CAT'S METLIFE STADIUM INVASION
        
      
“I would like to take this opportunity to apologize for my actions following our game with Denver. That was totally out of character for me. I do not justify my actions, but was extremely frustrated with the way I had played and our team losing because of it. I was playing with a broken hand, but that is no excuse for my actions, and I am deeply regretful.
“I want to personally apologize to anyone who I offended, especially those who I was responsive to on Twitter. My choice of words did not reflect who I am, but only what I was feeling. Also, my sincerest apologies to my teammates, coaches, the Browns organization and most of all, the fans and kids that motivate me to even pursue this dream.”
He wished the Browns luck at the end of his message.

        
          NEW YORK JETS FANS CALL FOR ADAM GASE'S JOB AFTER LOSS TO WINLESS MIAMI DOLPHINS
        
      
Whitehead drew the fury of fans and was criticized by journalists after he missed a tackle on a Noah Fant 75-yard touchdown catch and another big play. He responded by lashing out at his fans on Twitter. According to ESPN, Whitehead’s Twitter account was suspended before he left the locker room. He did not take questions from the media.

        
          WARNING: TWEETS CONTAIN EXPLICIT LANGUAGE
        
      
