
# Google Steps Further Into Healthcare With Fitbit Acquisition

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Davis**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottdavis/2019/11/06/google-steps-further-into-healthcare-with-fitbit-acquisition/)

With the news of Amazon’s Health Navigator acquisition coming just one year after acquiring PillPack – in the same week that Google acquired Fitbit – there should be little doubt that the healthcare landscape continues to go through a seismic shift. In fact, it has been over the last five years. By 2020, $24 billion will be available for healthcare tech spend (according to an estimate from Statista) and it is clear to all the titans—Apple, Google, Amazon, Salesforce—that the largest battleground in the tech world is and will continue to be healthcare. And, while the analysts have been split on whether this Google-Fitbit marriage is a wearable play or a healthcare play, make no mistake: this is a healthcare play.

        How Google Could Transform Healthcare Tech
      
Google's ability to aggregate and analyze millions of points of data daily from Fitbits’ 28 million users could literally be a predictive analytic game changer in driving personalized health recommendations and interventions. 
Google could not get there as quickly without Fitbit (Google Fit has only 2.6 million monthly unique users) and, as Fitbit CEO James Park stated in a recent interview with Time, “The healthcare system is incredibly complex and it takes working with a lot of different big players to have a big impact.” He also shared Fitbit’s own ambition to “make this stuff that we’re working on available and accessible to as many people around the world. And we can only do that by working with the largest players in healthcare.” And that would be Google.

        Why Fitbit Decided to Align with Google
      
Fitbit already partnered with Google to improve its ability to share data with medical professionals, certainly accelerating this new partnership. In 2018, Fitbit adopted Google Cloud for Healthcare APIs with the noble promise of making sharing fitness and health data safe, easy and secure. This was an early sign that Fitbit intended to move into the broader healthcare market in its quest to help consumers quickly share health data with doctors and others in the healthcare community. They just needed the right partner. Again, that would be Google.
On the Google side, the push into healthcare has been explosive. Its stated and implied goal of transforming and reinventing the healthcare industry is driven by its cutting edge AI technology and data platforms. From disease detection to rewiring the healthcare payor system, to creating AI-powered assistants for doctors and nurses, Fitbit is one more brick in the incredible healthcare transformation house that Google is building.

        The Bottom Line
      
What makes this move even more interesting is the incredible relevance both of these brands have today, as reported in the 2019 Prophet Brand Relevance Index (BRI). With Google ranking the 13th most relevant brand in the U.S., and Fitbit not far behind at number 19, the 1+1=3 potential for both brands to connect more to consumers and physicians is tremendous. 
In our study, Google scored incredibly well on being customer obsessed, ruthlessly pragmatic and pervasively innovative but fell short on being a distinctively inspiring brand for consumers. Being a distinctively inspiring brand is exactly where Fitbit crushes it, ranking at the very top as a brand that not only aligns with consumers’ values and belief systems, but also inspires them to move and to step forward in their lives. Google already has Android, Google and YouTube in the top 20 most relevant brands in the U.S…why not add a fourth in 2020?
