
# Is Apple’s Inclusion Of Disability-Themed Emojis Four Years Too Late?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Kim**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/sarahkim/2019/10/31/apple-disability-related-emojis/)

On Monday, October 28, Apple released nearly 60 new emoji characters with its iOS 13.2 software update. Among interracial couples and gender-neutral characters, the emoji keyboard now includes the anticipated disability-centric characters and icons. Now included in Apple’s emoji library are service dogs for the blind and characters in wheelchairs and with prosthetic limbs.Although beginning 2015, Apple has made significant strides in its efforts to diversify its emoji collection, disability inclusion hasn’t been a part of its initiative until now.  
It was only in 2018 that Apple started to advocate for emoji options that were more inclusive to people with disabilities. The tech company sent a proposal to Unicode Consortium — the nonprofit organization that sets the global standards for emojis — advocating for 13 new emojis that would represent disabilities.
“Currently, emoji provide a wide range of options, but may not represent the experiences of those with disabilities,” Apple wrote in its March 2018 proposal. “Diversifying the options available helps fill a significant gap and provides a more inclusive experience for all.”
With people with disabilities composing the largest minority group in America, it’s a wonder why it took this long for Apple to introduce this addition to its emoji collection. Especially as a tech company that prides itself, ensuring its products and software accommodate people with disabilities, such emojis should have been a part of its diversity and inclusion efforts back in 2015.
Even though dozens of disability advocacy groups are praising Apple for the milestone, people with disabilities and their allies are offering their constructive criticism, most of them referring to the lack of representation of intellectual and invisible disabilities. One example is an op-ed in The Washington Post by Amy Silverman, a journalist who covers disability-related issues and a mother of a teenager with Down syndrome.
“Just as the blue-and-white international “handicapped” symbol falls far short of including all people with disabilities,” Silverman writes, “so does this handful of emoji.” She goes on by admitting that it’d be challenging to design an emoji with Down syndrome or other intellectual and developmental disabilities without feeding into the hurtful stereotypes and slurs.
Silverman continues, “Emoji[s] are such a quick read. How easy it will be to use a wheelchair emoji to tell someone, ‘You’re so lame!’ or ask with a hearing aid image, ‘Are you deaf?!’”
If Apple had thought of disability-inclusive emojis back in 2014 and 2015 along with the rest of its diverse emojis, the company would’ve had more time to perfect its representation of a broad spectrum of disabilities, just as it has with its racially diverse characters.
However, on the other hand, Apple needs to toe a fine line of opening a can of worms. Despite the recent efforts of removing the R-word from medical and social terminology when describing a person with an intellectual disability, the derogatory word is still very much a part of mainstream culture. For example, Senator Kamala Harris called the actions of President Trump “mentally retarded” in early September. She soon after apologized for using the insulting word.
Apple must keep a close eye on how the disability-related emojis are used by its customers, as well as continue developing emojis that are inclusive of the full spectrum that disabilities encompass. 
