
# 'Bring a sleeping bag!' Manchester prepares for 24-hour peace epic

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:08:14+00:00**

Author: **Helen Pidd**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2019/nov/06/24-hours-of-peace-neil-bartlett-interview-remembrance-manchester)


        On Remembrance Sunday, a theatrical marathon will share the hopes and insights of 100 peace-workers around the UK. It’s an ode to optimism, says playwright Neil Bartlett
      
There cannot be many successful playwrights comfortable with the possibility that their work might play to an empty house. But Neil Bartlett insists he doesn’t mind if he is the only audience member during parts of his 24-hour verbatim piece when it premieres in Manchester this Remembrance Sunday. “Even if there is no one there at 4.30am, it doesn’t matter,” he said, grappling with a 572-page script of 200,000 words backstage at the Royal Exchange last week. “We will be there, bearing witness.”
24 Hours of Peace is quite rightly described in the publicity as an “epic”, which reproduces the thoughts and ideas of 100 people working for peace across the UK – from diplomats to army veterans, one-time neo-Nazis to campaigners against domestic violence. It will begin at 11am with the national two minutes of silence, and will then run round the clock until 11am on Monday.
Bartlett has recruited a crack relay team of 48 voices to perform this theatrical marathon, including Bafta-winner Toby Jones (Detectorists, Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy), Miranda Richardson (The Crying Game, Made in Dagenham), Julie Hesmondhalgh (Coronation Street, Happy Valley) and Adjoa Andoh, who played Richard II to great acclaim earlier this year at the Globe. None of them have attended a rehearsal and they only received their scripts a week ago, though Bartlett has been running through some scenes with 24 amateur actors from across Manchester, aged 15 to 80-odd.
The performance is free and you can’t book. “Stay for 10 minutes, stay for the whole 24 hours and bring a sleeping bag if you want,” said Bartlett. If you can’t get to the Royal Exchange, the whole marathon will be broadcast live on Resonance FM. Afterwards, the source interviews, as well as a recording of the whole production, will be archived at the British Library as a record of how we view peace in 2019.
To compile the work, Bartlett spent the last six months travelling up and down the country asking the same questions: what is peace, what does it look like and how are we going to get it?
Interviewees included Nigel Bromage from the Small Steps education charity, who joined the far right aged 15 and now uses his experience to teach schoolchildren about radicalisation; Jasvinder Sanghera, who campaigns against forced marriage; and Jonathan Powell, Tony Blair’s chief Northern Ireland negotiator in the run-up to the Good Friday Agreement.
He spoke to veterans from the anti-nuclear women’s protest at Greenham Common; as well as Erinma Bell, a mother from Moss Side in Manchester, who began campaigning against violence after witnessing a shooting; and the Scottish National Party MP Steven Gethin, who after the collapse of communism had a job rounding up Kalashnikovs in the former Soviet Union.
War overshadows peace, said Bartlett. “Even a very small child could describe to you what a war looks like. But we don’t have a sense of the reality of peace. Immediately we do go for abstract nouns.” Serenity, quiet, harmony: unlike the concrete language of the guns, bombs and tanks of war. “It started to really bother me, so I decided to travel around the country talking to people whose business is peace.”
The work does not tell the audience how to think. “It’s not advocating or preaching a particular point of view,” insists Bartlett. “It’s not a play. It’s not saying: ‘Lights down, this will all be over in an hour-and-a-half, now I have something to tell you.’ It’s saying: if you want, as part of your Remembrance Sunday to be with us, or to tune in with us and to listen to these voices and these stories, then, come. Share the space with us.”
The Royal Exchange is a fitting place to explore peace, having been half destroyed by an IRA bomb in 1996 and then rebuilt at a cost of £32m. “It’s perfect. It’s a bombsite,” said Bartlett. “The question Remembrance Sunday asks us is: do you solve problems by bombing things or building things? And this building has seen both of those things happen.”
Programming the 24 hours has posed a particular headache for the company manager, said Bartlett. “You don’t want to see their spreadsheet as to who is sleeping where. Some people are doing a spot at 5pm and are back on at 4am and are back to finish the show. But we think we have worked it out so that everyone who needs a kip will get one either in a hotel nearby or in a dressing room.”
The last time Bartlett stayed up all night was 25 years ago at a party on Fire Ireland, the gay enclave in New York state. “I’m 61 now. Once we’ve watched the news, my husband and I are ready for bed,” he laughed. “I’ve never been into drugs so all-nighters were never a big thing for me. If you see me backstage, please pass me another double espresso regardless of the time.” That said, he has form as far as lengthy theatrics go, having once read out Oscar Wilde’s 55,000-word De Profundis on the site of what was once Reading jail, not taking a toilet break for over six hours.
Bartlett came away from his interviews with a profound sense of optimism. Powell in particular persuaded him that “no conflict is insoluble”. People often talk as if some conflicts can never be solved, whether that’s in the Middle East, or around gender-based violence or Islamophobia, but that’s not true, he said. “I grew up in the 1970s and 1980s, and I was told that the killing in Northern Ireland was merely the expression of an intractable and insoluble cultural divide. It’s not true. We did it. And all of these people are doing it.”
