
# Guide: Pokémon GO - Looming In The Shadows Walkthrough: Mysterious Components, Rocket Radar And Battling Giovanni

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Woor**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/guide_pokemon_go_-_looming_in_the_shadows_walkthrough_mysterious_components_rocket_radar_and_battling_giovanni)

There’s never a dull moment in Pokémon GO. Squeezing itself in before Pokémon chatter turns to Sword and Shield’s release next week, and hot on the heels of the Halloween and ‘Colossal Discovery’ events, Niantic have put live another new event. This time, it’s the turn of the game’s Team GO Rocket battles to take centre stage – defeat grunts and track the leaders of this shadowy organisation with our guide to the new mechanics and the newly available special research quest ‘Looming in the Shadows’.
The next step of Team GO Rocket’s invasion has begun – after several months of Team GO Rocket occupations of PokéStops worldwide, the evil team’s leaders have finally appeared for you to fight. Look out for the following:
New Special Research available – ‘Looming in the Shadows’ (see our Walkthrough below)
This follows several weeks of teases from Niantic in which the game’s social channels and websites have featured story snippets involving Professor Willow and Team Leaders Blanche, Candela and Spark tracking down details of Team GO Rocket’s leadership. This culminated in the appearance of ‘mysterious component’ drops in a small number of cities (London in the UK, Atlanta, Austin and San Francisco in the US) on 6 November before a global rollout on 7 November.
Theorised by Professor Willow to be the devices that help Team GO Rocket grunts to take over PokéStops, these purple-screened ‘mysterious components’ can now be dropped by any grunts you fight at infected PokéStops – the darkened stops that shake as if ‘glitched out’ on the Pokémon GO map (find out more in our guide to infected PokéStops).
Collect six mysterious components, and you will be prompted to turn them into a ‘Mysterious Device’/Rocket Radar – a machine capable of locating a Team GO Rocket leader.
Using the Rocket Radar will provide you with access to a new map view. On this new map view, you will be able to see Pokéstops occupied by a Team GO Rocket leader, indicated by a large red ‘R’. Walk closer and the leader occupying the Pokéstop will appear, standing beside the PokéStop.
In the event that there are no leaders near your current location, the game will prompt you to search elsewhere/at another time.

        Note that you can only hold one Rocket Radar at a time, and will not collect more Mysterious Components until you have fought the boss (consuming the radar in the process).
      
Once you have located a Rocket Leader’s base, you will have the opportunity to battle them for some nice rewards. Battles play out similar to those for regular grunts, with the exception that the leaders will have Protect Shields at their disposal that they actually use – as with your own Protect Shields, you will do no damage to the leader when they use them.
Because of this, we recommend frontloading your team with a Pokémon that has a charged attack that is available relatively quickly.
Beating any Team GO Rocket leader will reward you with the following:
Any two of the following:
Arlo is an ambitious trainer and ex-member of Team Valor – once a close friend of Candela, he resented her elevation to leader of Team Valor and appears to have found the vehicle for his revenge in Giovanni’s Team GO Rocket.
Signature Pokémon: Scyther
Second Pokémon: Gyarados, Magnezone or Crobat
Third Pokémon: Charizard, Dragonite or Scizor
The first leader of Team GO Rocket that Professor Willow encountered, Cliff is a muscular, straightforward and intimidating trainer who professes great loyalty to Team GO Rocket and Giovanni.
Signature Pokémon: Meowth
Second Pokémon: Sandslash, Snorlax or Flygon
Third Pokémon: Tyranitar, Torterra or Infernape
A highly experienced trainer who refuses to suffer fools, the formidable Sierra clashed with Team Instinct leader Spark in the events recalled by Willow in his report.
Signature Pokémon: Sneasel
Second Pokémon: Hypno, Lapras or Sableye
Third Pokémon: Alakazam, Houndoom or Gardevoir
If you’ve been playing Pokémon GO at any point since July, there’ll be nothing to phase you in this step – just walk around for a bit, spin some PokéStops and look our for at least three darkened/glitched PokéStops. Once defeated, catch their Shadow Pokémon – easy stuff, but for a guide to the basics of beating Grunts at infected PokéStops in order to catch and purify Shadow Pokémon, click here.
Note that Step 2/6 involves purifying Shadow Pokémon – leave any you catch in step 1/6 unpurified until then.
Step two ramps things up a tiny bit – you’ll need to play for five days in a row, spinning a PokéStop each day. You’ll also have to win 5 raids (any level) and purify 15 shadow Pokémon – which means finding 15 infected PokéStops, assuming you don’t already have unpurified shadow Pokémon in your collection.
The 5-day PokéStop spin requirement for step two will keep the GO community from progressing in the quest until at least 11 November – check back then to discover what you’ll need to do next.
Niantic’s press-release teases does contain some glimpses of what to expect – not only will you apparently develop a Super Rocket Radar capable of locating Giovanni, but you can expect grunts to impersonate him to throw you off the scent. The ultimate reward will apparently be some kind of Legendary Shadow Pokémon – could we perhaps see the return of Shadow Mewtwo (Pokkén Tournament), Shadow Lugia (Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness), or just as likely, something entirely different?
A word of caution: we expect that subsequent steps will involve fighting the Team GO Rocket leaders, Cliff, Sierra, Arlo and Giovanni himself. This process will likely mean gathering Mysterious Components and assembling Rocket Radars. Because Special Research quests are typically not awarded retroactively (except for one-and-done things such as Pokédex progress), it is possible that any leaders you manage to fight (or radars you build/components you find) won’t be counted until after you have completed Step 2/6.
