
# North Korea Keeps Showing the World Why Its Long-Range Artillery Is a Threat

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:30:00+00:00**

Author: **David Axe**

Original: [Yahoo](https://news.yahoo.com/north-korea-keeps-showing-world-093000770.html)

North Korea on Oct. 31, 2019 fired two rockets from its new “super-large” multiple rocket launch system, potentially escalating tension between Washington and Pyongyang as talks over North Korea’s nuclear-weapons program stall out.
The projectiles launched from Pyongannam-do, a province around Pyongyang, The New York Times reported. The munitions flew up to 230 miles before landing in waters between North Korea and Japan, the South Korean military said in a statement.
The hermit state earlier had tested apparently the same 370-millimeter-diameter rockets in September and August 2019, explained Gabriel Dominguez Cespedes, an editor at Jane’s.
“When North Korea first tested its super-large MRL system on Aug. 24, each of the two projectiles flew about 380 kilometers at a top speed of Mach 6.5 and reached an altitude of about 97 kilometers before falling into the Sea of Japan,” Dominguez Cespedes wrote.
“The projectiles were the first such weapons that North Korea had tested since the country fired its Pukguksong-3 submarine-launched ballistic missile on Oct. 2 into waters off Japan,” The New York Times reporter Choe Sang-Hun explained. ‘It was the 12th time since early May that the North had tested ballistic missiles or other projectiles.”

        Read the original article.
      
