
# 'We deeply regret' civil servants taking part in protests: Hong Kong government official

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:49:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [CNA](https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asia/hong-kong-protests-government-civil-servants-take-part-12064168)

HONG KONG: The Hong Kong government said on Tuesday (Nov 5) it deeply regrets the involvement of civil servants in protests that have plunged the Chinese-ruled city into crisis as activists plan fresh demonstrations across the territory.
Acting Chief Executive Matthew Cheung's comments came after a commentary on the ruling Communist Party's People's Daily Weibo account said Hong Kong civil servants who support the anti-government demonstrations would "perish with the rioters".
The demonstrations began over a since-scrapped extradition Bill and escalated in mid-June. 
Protesters have kept up their calls for universal suffrage and an independent inquiry into police behaviour, among other demands.
The protests, which pose a grave challenge to Chinese leader Xi Jinping, have received broad support from Hong Kong people, including some civil servants, teachers and financial industry workers who have at times taken to the streets.
"In the past few months, a very small portion of the civil servants have broken the law, participating in illegal protests. We deeply regret that," Cheung said.
"Their first job is to serve society, serve the community. And to support government policies, that is the responsibility of the civil servants."
In August, thousands of civil servants defied a government warning to remain politically neutral and joined a rally, while the territory's chief executive Carrie Lam said in September she regretted the arrest of some civil servants during protests.
