
# The secret Princess Diana kept from Prince Charles while expecting Prince Harry

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:46:03+00:00**

Author: **Lesego Mkhize**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/Royal-News/the-secret-princess-diana-kept-from-prince-charles-while-expecting-prince-harry-20191105)

Cape Town - Less than a year after tying the knot in 1982, Prince Charles and Princess Diana were expecting their first child together.
Just two years after welcoming their firstborn, Prince William, the late Lady Diana was carrying another royal – only this time she kept the baby’s gender a secret from her husband, Mirror News reports.
Journalist Andrew Morton revealed in his explosive autobiography Diana: Her True Story – In Her Words, that the Princess of Wales kept Harry’s gender a secret because her husband wanted a girl.
Andrew says Lady Di knew Harry was a boy.
“I knew Harry was going to be a boy because I saw on the scan. Charles always wanted a girl,” he penned were her words at the time.
“He wanted two children, and he wanted a girl,” she said.
Despite knowing the baby’s gender she kept it a secret from him until Harry was born in 1984.
When the Duke of Sussex was born, the Prince of Wales was unimpressed with the fact that it was a boy, DailyMail reported.
“Oh God, it’s a boy,” were allegedly Prince Charles’ first words at the time of Harry’s birth. To which he added, “And he’s even got red hair!”
Although the now 70-year-old insists he was joking, it’s alleged he also told Diana’s mother, Frances Kydd, at Harry’s christening that they were hoping for a girl, The Sun reported.
“We were so disappointed – we thought it would be a girl,” Andrew noted were Prince Charles’ words to his mother-in-law.
To which she allegedly responded, “You should realise how lucky you are to have a child that’s normal.”

        (Sources:
         
        
          
            Mirror
          
        
        
          , 
        
        
          
            Daily Mail
          
        
        
          , 
        
        
          
            The Sun
          
        
        )
      
