
# Nest Wifi’s ‘Gaming Preferred’ setting can optimize your Stadia traffic

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:12:21+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/nest-wifis-gaming-preferred-setting-optimizes-your-network-playing-games-stadia?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Nirave Gondhia / Android Central
      
The folks over at 9to5Google had discovered a new "Gaming preferred" setting for Nest Wifi last week, intended for Google's upcoming Stadia game streaming service. Google has now updated its Nest support page with details on exactly how this new setting can help improve your Stadia experience.
The setting ensures that your Stadia traffic is automatically optimized, so that other activities or devices on your Wi-Fi network do not slow down your gaming experience. In its Nest Help page, Google notes that users need "a fast pathway to and from cloud servers without being overly delayed by an underpinning router or competing traffic on the same network" for the "best gaming experience" on Stadia.
While the setting is on by default, you can turn it off from the Google Home app. Once you open the Google Home app, tap on Wi-Fi and then select Settings in the top corner. You can now toggle the "Gaming preferred" setting on or off. However, the setting only prioritizes Stadia traffic, you will not notice any difference when you play games using other services.
Google's Stadia game streaming service is slated to go live on November 19 in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Italy, France, Spain, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Norway, Finland, Ireland, Belgium, and the Netherlands.
The Google Nest Wifi 2-pack Wi-Fi system can provide fast and reliable coverage in homes up to 3,800 square feet. It is capable of handling up to 200 connected devices and supports up to 2.2 Gbps data transfer speed. The Access point comes with the Google Assistant built-in, which means you can use it to manage your Wi-Fi network, control smart home devices, play music, and much more, using your voice.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        come closer Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity Ultrasonic sensing is now rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max, which allows them to dynamically change what is on the display as you get closer or further away.
      

        Did You Hear That Nest Secure will soon be able to detect breaking windows Nest Secure's microphone will soon be able to do more than just take Assistant commands. Beginning in early November, Google will enable Glass break detection which will allow it to sound the alarm when a window breaks.
      

        Because I'm happppyyyy Are you happy with the Pixel 4? The Pixel 4 has received a lot of criticism since its release, but taking a look through the AC forums, many people are really happy with the phone. What about you?
      

        Best stuff in life is free Outlast 2 brings the scares in November's free PS Plus games If you have a PlayStation Plus membership, then you know about PlayStation's free games of the month. Here are the free games you can get this month with your membership.
      
