
# Rand Paul Says He 'Probably Will' Disclose Whistleblower's Name

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:27:34+00:00**

Author: **Kristina Wong**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/2020-election/2019/11/05/rand-paul-says-he-will-probably-disclose-whistleblowers-name-calls-him-a-material-witness/)

He told reporters Tuesday evening that he “probably will” disclose the whistleblower’s name, according to reports.
“I’m more than willing to, and I probably will at some point,” he said, according to the Hill. “There is no law preventing anybody from saying the name.”
During a rally in Kentucky on Monday night, he called on the media who know his name to “do your job and print his name.”
The New York Times first identified the whistleblower as a male who works as a CIA analyst. RealClearInvestigations was the first media outlet to report that it is likely CIA analyst Eric Ciaramella.
Ciaramella joined the National Security Council in 2015 and worked with former Vice President Joe Biden. He stayed on at the NSC until 2017, when he was suspected of leaks to the media. He reportedly returned to his home agency.
Paul said during the rally on Monday:
He told CNN’s Suzanne Malveaux during a brief interview on Tuesday that it is not illegal to identify a whistleblower and that whistleblower laws only prevent the government from identifying a whistleblower.
“The whistleblower statute protects the whistleblower from having his name revealed by the inspector general. Even the New York Times admits that no one else is under any legal obligation,” he said.
Paul went on to say:
