
# Furious dad ‘beat meth addict to death after he broke into baby daughter’s room'

Published at: **2019-11-04T20:32:18+00:00**

Author: **Brendan McFadden**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/furious-dad-beat-meth-addict-20811847?utm_source=facebook.com&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=mirror_main)

A dad beat a drug addict to death after he discovered him in his baby daughter's room, a court heard.
Benjamin Batterham, 35, is accused in killing Ricky Slater, 34, in 2016 after he was chased from the dad's home in Newcastle, Australia, but he denies murdering him.
Batterham, an apprentice chef, allegedly pursued Slater for around 330m down the street after he spotted him in the room, which his daughter was not in at the time, around 3.20am.
Slater had the first of three cardiac arrests when paramedics arrived at the scene at 3.47am, before dying the next day as a result of a lack of oxygen, his trial heard.
He is said to have been overweight and had a "potentially lethal" level of methylamphetamine in his system at the time of his death, according to reports.
Wayne Creasey SC prosecuting said Batterham had told police: "Give me two minutes with him. I'll kill the dog."
Mr Creasey explained a neighbour and police officer Peter Mahon witnessed Batterham punching Slater a number of times in the head while pinning him to the ground with one arm around his neck.
The court heard neighbour claimed they heard Slater crying out: "I can't breathe. I can't breathe."
It is alleged Batterham told him: "You motherf***ing piece of s***.
"How dare you break into my daughter's bedroom. She's only seven months old."
The court heard Slater stole valuable items from the home, including a purse belonging to Batterham's partner and his daughter's headband.
Batterham is said to have spotted Mr Slater as he celebrated his birthday with a friend.
His partner and baby daughter were not at home at the time.
Mr Creasey said Batterham had had the right to pursue Slater and restrain him until police arrived.
He added that it was not right to attack him or "exact some sort of revenge".
Winston Terracini SC defending said he was entitled to chase Slater and to "defend his home and family".
He also said a forensic pathologist said there were "very little injuries on the deceased man consistent with a violent struggle".
He added Slater had not been beaten or strangled to death.
He also is said to have had scarring to his heart caused by regular drug use and suffered from liver disease.
