
# Puppy frightened of fireworks dies from heart attack ahead of Bonfire Night

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:07:33+00:00**

Author: **Saffron Otter**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/puppy-frightened-fireworks-dies-heart-20809193)

A pet owner claims her puppy has 'died of fright' caused by the loud noise of fireworks.
Molly suffered a heart attack triggered from 'loud bangs going off' over the weekend, her owner claimed.
The tiny terrier died just days before Bonfire Night, the Manchester Evening News reports.
Eighteen-week-old terrier Molly's death comes as a debate rages over whether fireworks sales either side of the Guy Fawke's celebrations should be limited - or even banned.
Many pet owners have been pleading for a crackdown on personal fireworks sales, saying the noise terrifies their pets and can even cause them to injure themselves.
 
Susan Paterson shared photos of the pup with her alarming message to the public Facebook group - Wombwell wise - which covers the area in Barnsley, South Yorkshire.
The post has since been shared 63,000 times.
In her devastating message, Susan calls for people to support the FAB (Firework Abatement Campaign) and to sign the petition against random fireworks.
On Sunday night, she said: "Due to the enormous amount of fireworks with loud bangs going off around Wombwell and lower Darfield last night, we lost a young terrier with a heart attack.
"Please think of the animals. Molly was only 18 weeks old and died of FRIGHT caused by fireworks.
"Please support FAB Anti Random Fireworks page and sign their petition".
The post has since accumulated a huge response, prompting Susan to post: "Thanks for all your comments. We are still trying to make sense of what happened. Dreading the fireworks again tonight."
The Change.org petition has so far 496,099 signatures - and counting.
Julian Doorne, who started the petition, said: "Fireworks can cause serious distress to animals. They don’t only suffer psychologically, but also physically as many attempt to run away from, or hide from, the bangs.
"With extreme noise levels and people being able to let off fireworks any time of year, it’s difficult for those who care for animals to be able to put measures in place to protect their animals.
"I’m calling for an urgent review of firework regulations to further restrict their use, as a step to preventing needless animal suffering."
Last month Sainsbury's chose to ban the sale of fireworks entirely, while other supermarkets this year are selling 'low-noise' fireworks .

        RSPCA advice on keeping pets secure during fireworks:
      
