
# Retired Army major killed by one punch outside Thailand go-go bar

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:49:20+00:00**

Author: **Wales News Service**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/retired-army-major-killed-one-20793697)

A retired Army major died after being punched in the head by a go-go bar bouncer in Thailand, an inquest heard.
Mike Jones-Mathias was on a work trip in Pattaya when he was violently attacked in front of horrified holidaymakers.
The 55-year-old, who retired as a major from the Corps of Royal Engineers, visited Mandarin Agogo bar for a drink on his way back to his hotel on May 17 last year.
An inquest heard that while inside the bar, he dialled emergency number 911 - just five minutes before CCTV captured him being punched to the floor.
The video, played at the inquest, shows Mike in the street outside the bar before he is approached by two men and hit to the floor with one horror punch.
Security guard Phumphat Tanosingh was charged with grievous bodily harm following a Thai police investigation into the attack and faced a trial in Thailand.
But he was found not guilty after claiming self-defence - claiming Mike had attempted to leave the Mandarin Agogo bar without paying his bill.
Wife Veronica, 50, said: "For the record, I know my husband would never have left a bar without paying a bill.
"What could have happened in that establishment that could make that punch lawful?"
She questioned why her husband would have called for emergency assistance while in the bar.
The inquest in Pontypridd, South Wales heard Mike was at the start of a three-month work trip as a senior operations project manager.
He had gone for an evening meal with his senior management team but later decided to stop at a bar alone.
Veronica said: "At no point in the court transcript does it mention the video shown. Why was the video not shown in evidence?
"The judgement was handed down without them knowing that Mike was dead. Had they known I wonder whether or not the conclusion would have been different."
She added her husband put up a "monumental fight" while recovering from his brain injury.
The inquest heard Mike underwent surgery in Thailand for damage to his right frontal lobe and was finally flown to Cardiff six weeks later.
But he tragically died on March 24 this year after his health deteriorated.
Professor Phillip Smith, of University Hospital of Wales, gave a cause of death as pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and traumatic brain injury.
 
Mike, of Cowbridge, Vale of Glamorgan, graduated as an officer in the Army in 1984 and served in the first Gulf War.
He later became a detective sergeant for Gwent Police before moving on to become an operations manager on engineering projects in the Middle East.
The inquest heard Mike and wife Veronica had opened a cafe in Cardiff when they returned to the UK in 2015.
But he was asked to go to Thailand for the three month trip in his former role as operations manager.
Acting senior coroner Graeme Hughes rejected the family's request for a conclusion of unlawful killing.
He said: "Yes, it was on the evidence deliberate but was it unlawful?
"I haven't heard any evidence from the assailant. If he was here in the UK then he would be called as a witness and he could be questioned.
"He has not had the opportunity to come before me and make representations to me.
"I have to bear in mind that there was a trial of some sorts in Thailand and as a consequence, he was acquitted.
"I am not satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that it would be safe for me to reach unlawful killing."
Recording a narrative conclusion, he said: "The deceased died as a consequence of complications arising from head injuries sustained following a punch to the head."
After the inquest, wife Veronica said: "Mike was a man of uniform. He was a man of duty. He was a stickler for doing the right thing.
"There is no way he would have left without paying a bill.
"I thank God he was resuscitated after he was punched because I had another 11 months with him."
