
# UK weather forecast: Met Office issues yellow warnings for wet and windy weekend

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:04:26+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-forecast-met-office-20793073)

The Met Office has issued a number of yellow warnings for wind and rain across the country today.
Forecasters are warning of a 'danger to life from flying debris and floods' as the UK is set for a wet and windy weekend.
People attending the fireworks displays in the southern parts of the country should be mindful of the strong gales .
The Met Office has issued three yellow warnings for rain and one for wind over northern Scotland, Wales and south England.
Strong winds reaching up to 70mph or more will hit the most exposed coastal areas in the south.
Rainfall levels are expected to reach 30-40mm across much of Wales and south-west England, but locally could reach 60-80mm.
 
London is expected to be "quite wet and windy" for much of Saturday and gusts could reach up to 40-50mph across the capital.
Met Office meteorologist Alex Deakin told Daily Express that rain will be "especially heavy across the southwest and the northeast".
He said: "That will linger into Sunday as well, it's all from an area of low pressure swinging in through the early hours of Saturday morning.
"We've got the band of rain swinging across the south and lingering across parts of southwest England and Wales into the afternoon."
Coastal areas in the south such as Dorset, Hampshire and the Isle of Wight are expected to be badly hit as the strong gusts of winds would "certainly cause some travel disruptions".
Southeastern Railway has posted on its Twitter account that trains will be affected by speed restrictions due to the weather warning.
"Tomorrow, lines on the map below marked in orange will have a speed restriction imposed because of forecast high winds," it wrote.
"Certain trains have been altered and these are now showing in the journey planners. Please check before you travel."
Very windy in the south, particularly over south-west England and southern coasts. Further rain for many areas, most persistent in the southwest, Wales and far north. Northern Ireland and southern Scotland drier with sunny spells.
Further rain across northern areas, as well as in Wales, whilst blustery showers affect other southern areas. Clear spells developing over Northern Ireland with a few fog patches.
Sunny spells and showers, these merging into longer spells of rain across parts of north and east Scotland, northern England and west Wales.
Cloudy with rain or showers on Monday. Drier for most on Tuesday, but colder with some overnight frost and fog. Cloudier from the west on Wednesday with further rain.
