
# Pre-Black Friday 2019: Best Home Deals From Wayfair, Target & Others

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/07/pre-black-friday-deals-on-couches-chairs-and-rugs-you-can-get-today/)

Black Friday is rapidly approaching, but that doesn’t mean you have to wait to get sweet deals on home items like couches, chairs and area rugs. In fact, with some early sales rolling through at Wayfair, Target and Walmart, you can earn steep discounts on high-quality pieces for the home without the mad rush that comes with everyone’s favorite shopping holiday. From Serta to Naumann, don’t wait until Black Friday to save on these stunning pieces.
Original Price: $600
Sale Price: $500
If you’re looking for a high-quality couch at a reasonable price, then this sofa may well be the way to go. It offers a classy design with a clean beige color that should look awesome in any living room. The sofa has a solid pinewood frame construction with a beige linen fabric upholstery, and its low back helps make it look nice and modern. It’s available for an impressive $100 off.
Original Price: $991.78
Sale Price: $799.99
Serta may be known for its ultra-comfortable mattresses, but it is leveraging its experience in making comfortable products with the Copenhagen Reclining Sectional sofa. This sofa offers a fully reclining left side for a more comfortable experience, and its clean arm design helps give it a modern look too. 

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $566
Sale Price: $445
Walmart might be a discount haven on Black Friday, but you can also shop some major sales ahead of time. Case in point: The Serta Geneva Sofa is on sale right now for $335 (originally $772). Ideal for small space living — or an extra cushy hangout in your home office or bedroom! — the designer sofa is like sitting on a cloud. After all, it’s made by one of the top mattress brands.
Original Price: $200
Sale Price: $150
Whether its an accent chair or a dining chair, seating can get expensive. But, luckily, Target has 30% off home furniture until Friday. And, that means you can get the Homepop Modern Swoop Accent Chair with Nailhead Trim for $128 (compared to $170). With four upholstery colors to choose from — rich charcoal, light brown, slate, and gray sterling — there is a chair for every color scheme and style.
Original Price: $205.99
Sale Price: $179.99
Looking to give your home a modern flare? The Naumann Armchair comes in a range of bright, vivid colors that will add a splash of life to any room. They’re built for comfort, feature a nice, compact build, and have a pinewood frame to ensure that they’re nice and strong. Normally $205.99, the chair is currently available for an impressive $179.99.
Original Price: $480
Sale Price: $198
Accent chairs are a great way to add something more to a space without overcrowding. Not to mention: Extra seating is always welcome! The Langley Street Coral Springs Lounge Chair features a classic, clean mid-century-inspired design with espresso-finished wood and five upholstery colors (linen, sea, otter, charcoal, and azure) to choose from — all of which can help tie everything together. The best part? You don’t have to wait until Black Friday for a sweet deal. Right now, you can get the accent chair for $207, which is 57% off the original price tag.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $118
Sale Price: $36
If you’re looking for a versatile rug that will look great in any situation, it’s absolutely worth considering the Nathanson Terracotta Peach area rug. This rug offers a classy distressed appearance that will help make it look unique and interesting, plus at $35.99, you really can’t go wrong.
Original Price: $162 – $400
Sale Price: $104.87 – $289.87
Looking to bring a modern flair to your home? If so, we recommend the Orian Rugs Fleet Gray Area Rug, which looks classy, and should fit in any living room. The rug is soft and is made with neutral colors to help ensure that it fits in any environment.
Original Price: $82.80 – $725
Sale Price: $43 – $683
Add some vintage flair to your space with the Bungalow Rose Annabel Area Rug. The durable rug is long-lasting and perfect for any high-traffic space. And, when it comes to piling height, it has the best of both worlds. With a medium height pile, the area combines both the favored benefits of a thicker rug, with the bonus of having a thinner rug. Originally on sale for $83 to $725, you can now get this designer rug for between $41 and $683, depending on size.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
Original Price: $79-$999
Sale Price: $34-$379
Add some texture and fun to your space — while keeping it neutral — with the Mistana Jenny Cream Area Rug. The geometrical design coupled with the tasseled edges gives this area rug a unique flair, while the texture, durable design makes it worth the splurge. Originally on sale for between $79 ad $666, you can now save big with discounts starting at $39 and going to $530, depending on the size.

        
          Shop Now
        
      
