
# Strictly's Mike Bushell nearly drops partner Katya Jones during Charleston

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:02:29+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/strictlys-mike-bushell-nearly-drops-20798903)

Eagle-eyed Strictly Come Dancing fans noticed that dance off-regular Mike Bushell very nearly dropped his pro partner Katya Jones.
The pair, who have survived being in the bottom two a whopping three times, impressed judges with their Charleston to Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines by The Ron Goodwin Orchestra.
Stepping out of two model hot air balloons, they took to the floor with excitement and flair.
Even the most passionate dancers can slip up though, as Mike proved when he nearly lost his grip on poor Katya.
Still, they won an impressive 30 points, their highest score on the show so far.
 
Mike will be hoping to avoid the a fourth dance off - and his third in a row - but he's got some stiff competition.
Karim Zeroual and Amy Dowden, and Michelle Visage and Giovanni Pernice made for a stunning opening, scoring very highly and even drawing gushing praise from savagely harsh Craig Revel-Horwood.
Last week saw the controversial axing of Corrie's Catherine Tyldesley - evicted after a dance off with Mike - which many fans were outraged about.
DJ Dev Griffin was given the boot the week before, with Craig Revel-Horwood now admitting that the quality is better after several of the couples have been sent packing.
He told Amanda Holden and Jamie Theakston on Heart's Breakfast Show: "You know generally when you get down to this stage because people are very equal in talent and ability, you know?
"At the moment I think on Strictly it's becoming obvious that there are people that are really becoming fantastic and they're leaving some of the rest behind so it's quite split in that way.
"But we do always get the dilemma of two good ones being in the bottom two."
