
# 5 Reasons To Stay At Mexico’s Peaceful Paradise: The Andaz Mayakoba

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adrienne Jordan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adriennejordan/2019/11/07/5-reasons-to-stay-at-mexicos-peaceful-paradise-the-andaz-mayakoba/)

Bird lovers-and just plain nature lovers-will be right at home at the Andaz Mayakoba, located on the tranquil Mayakoba lagoon in Mexico’s Riviera Maya. The 200 bird species found at Mayakoba was played up beautifully on property: the composition and curves of birds can be seen in the geometry of the buildings. For real life encounters, complimentary tours of the lagoon are done by boat on the lagoon where you learn not only about birds, but wildlife and plants found throughout Mayakoba. From the use of biodegradable avocado seed straws; local Mexican design in the rooms; to the balmy beach, here are my top 5 reasons to book your next visit to the Andaz Mayakoba:

        Sleep Soundlessly
      
Looking for diversity? The Andaz Mayakoba Resort Riviera Maya has 214 guestrooms and suites that either overlook crystal clear lagoons, mangrove and resort gardens, the golf course or have beach views. In order to enjoy the birdsong and fresh breeze, each accommodation has a spacious balcony or terrace (many even feature private plunge pools). The bright and cheery room design features many local elements like an area rug crafted from a collection of locally produced Mexican cement tiles; traditional masks; Mayan huipils; and bird figurines. Don’t worry about whether you can partake in the minibar at a fee as they offer complimentary local snacks and beverages.

        Dine Well
      
A variety of palates will be satisfied with the four restaurants located on property. One of my favorites, Casa Amate is open for dinner and Sunday brunch and offers Latin American cuisine. One of the striking features of the venue is how it is built around a courtyard with an Amate tree, of which the restaurant is named after. The menu was curated by Casa Amate Head Chef Ernesto Torres, and some of the standout choices are the yaca tinga tacos; stuffed poblano pepper; and chicken jocon.
For drinks, I preferred to head to the beachside OllaCeviche Bar, which features a tequila bar where you can find over 25 different tequila and mezcals. If you want to learn how to be a mixologist, this is a great place to start as they have mixology demonstrations as well as liquor tastings.  

        Beach + Pool Time
      
There are many quiet spaces for you to enjoy the sounds of nature on property. You can visit the landscaped outdoor pool; the lap pool located on the lagoon side of the resort; or the beachside pool. One of the most prized parts of the property is the secluded, white sand beach.  If you prefer not to lay around, then you can request the complimentary stand-up paddle boards, pedal boating, kayaking and snorkeling equipment.

        Get Pampered
      
Have you ever visited a spa that lets you design your own products? At the 10,000 square-foot Naum Wellness & Spa, you can indulge in an interactive aromatherapy bar and design your own custom products and scents. In addition, head to the new apothecary bar to create products using herbs, spices, and natural oils to use in whichever spa ritual you choose. The spa comes equipped with six open and airy treatment cabins as well as two hydrotherapy areas that you can visit ahead of time before a relaxing treatment.
