
# Kevin Lunney's attackers need 'apprehended, convicted and put away' says brother

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Brendan Hughes**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/07/news/kevin-lunney-s-attackers-need-apprehended-convicted-and-put-away-says-brother-1758478/)

THERE will only be comfort when the people who abducted and tortured Quinn Industrial Holdings (QIH) director Kevin Lunney are "apprehended, convicted and put away", his brother has said.
Tony Lunney said it was "very difficult" to watch Tuesday night's BBC Spotlight programme in which his brother spoke publicly for the first time about his ordeal.
They are both directors at QIH which for years has been the target of threats and intimidation.
It escalated in September when Kevin was abducted by a masked gang near his Co Fermanagh home before being tortured and dumped on a remote roadside in Co Cavan.
"I felt that I was going to die on the road.. I almost gave up," he told the programme.
Last week The Irish News reported how a masked gang had issued a fresh threat against QIH directors.
Tony Lunney said the family has taken "sensible security precautions" but that "you can only do so much" without making daily life impossible.
He said those behind the attack need to be brought to justice.
"The people that done this.. the only comfort will be when they're apprehended, convicted and put away," he said.
QIH management called for a cross-border task force to be set up following a meeting on Tuesday with Garda Commissioner Drew Harris.
Speaking to RTÉ yesterday, Tony said he was "happy with the way the meeting went".
"I went away from the meeting thinking there is certainly commitment to get the job done, but obviously the results have to flow through yet," he said.
But he said although the PSNI and gardaí are working closely together, the border has always been a "big issue".
"It's another dimension, it's harder for the authorities to deal with these type of people. They know every loophole in regard to the law, how to drag it out and how to avoid it," he said.
"It is a concern, and that's where the feeling is that this is very difficult at the border, even with full cooperation north and south with the authorities".
