
# 'Really annoying' - Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has this key message ahead of Aston Villa clash

Published at: **2019-11-02T09:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jonny Bonell**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/really-annoying-liverpool-boss-jurgen-17188994)

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has said star forward Mo Salah “should be fine” for today’s game with Aston Villa.
The Reds head to Villa Park today (3pm) looking to maintain their unbeaten start to the Premier League season and extend the current six-point gap they hold over second-placed Manchester City.
Salah, who has eight goals in 14 games in all competitions this season, has been forced to sit out of training this week due to an ankle problem.
Following a tackle by Hamza Choudhury in Liverpool’s win over Leicester City last month, Salah has had to repeatedly drain fluid from the joint in his ankle and missed the recent draw away to Manchester United.
 
But he returned in the Champions League against Genk and Premier League at home to Tottenham Hotspur, scoring in both.
“He should be fine,” Klopp said of Salah at his pre-match press conference. “He has had to do his individual stuff but he will be in training (on Friday).
“I think it is more really annoying - for him, not me - the fact that the injury always has a bit of fluid in, and he has to deal with it, we get it out and it comes back, and stuff like that.
 
“But this is not a real injury in this sense, so I’ve heard (from the physios), so he should be fine."
