
# Labour accuses PM of 'politically motivated' suppression of Russia report

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:40:40+00:00**

Author: **Dan Sabbagh, Luke Harding**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/05/labour-accuses-pm-of-politically-motivated-suppression-of-russia-report)


        Shadow foreign secretary says dossier raises awkward questions for the government
      
Labour has accused Boris Johnson of an “unjustifiable, unprecedented and clearly politically motivated” suppression of a parliamentary report into Russian attempts to infiltrate British politics and distort the results of the EU referendum.
Emily Thornberry, the shadow foreign secretary, asked the government what it had “to hide” as she demanded that No 10 approved the intelligence and security committee’s dossier before parliament dissolves on Tuesday.
“We are bound to ask what is Downing Street so worried about,” Thornbery said. “They realise that this report will lead to other questions about the links between Russia and Brexit and the current leadership of the Tory party, which risks derailing their election campaign.”
Thornberry said the government was suppressing the report because it also raised awkward questions about the funding of the Tory party by Russian immigrants, and Dominic Cummings, the prime minister’s controversial special adviser.
She said that during three “mysterious” years in Russia, Cummings had “allegedly forged” relationships with prominent Russians including Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin’s chief ideologist, whom she described as “the power behind Vladimir Putin’s throne”.
Surkov, currently serving as Putin’s personal adviser, is credited with inventing the term “sovereign democracy” to describe Russia’s authoritarian system. The US imposed sanctions on him in 2014 after Russia’s invasion and occupation of Crimea. During the 1990s Surkov was working for the oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky.
Thornberry also cited the “dubious activities” of the Conservative Friends of Russia, a pro-Kremlin parliamentary group run out of the Russian embassy by Sergey Nalobin, an alleged foreign intelligence spy, who spent five years cultivating relationships with senior Conservatives.
In reply, Christopher Pincher, a foreign office minister, accused Thornberry of engaging in a “rundown of interesting smears and conspiracy theories”.
Pincher added it was “rather rich for her to suggest that the Conservative party and this government is somehow linked to Russian disinformation, given the way her own party leadership has acted”.
The minister had been summoned to the despatch box to respond to an question from Dominic Grieve, the chairman of the intelligence and security committee, who told MPs that the Russia report had already been signed off by Britain’s intelligence agencies.
But he warned that if Johnson was to continue to sit on the report until the end of Tuesday, when parliament is dissolved, publication would be delayed for at least six months.
“If it is not laid before parliament ceases to sit, it is not capable of being laid until the committee is reformed, and in 2017 that took six months,” Grieve said. He also accused Downing Street of offering “bogus” explanation for the delay.
The 50-page Russia report was submitted on 17 October to Downing Street for Johnson’s approval, and the committee’s intention was that it would receive political clearance last week so that it could be published on Monday.
Pincher insisted the approval time for the report from the committee was not unusual, in that it often took more than 10 working days for the final sign off from Downing Street to be obtained.
