
# Even though it makes us unhappy, city life has never been more popular

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:00:06+00:00**

Author: **Torsten Bell**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/03/even-though-makes-us-unhappy-city-life-more-popular-than-ever)


        Two-thirds of the world’s population will live in one by 2050, so now’s the time to make them better places
      
Cities make us richer, but not happier. To be more specific, people living in cities are less happy than those living elsewhere in the UK, despite often earning more. That’s a concern, given the trend for more of us to live in cities. The UN says two-thirds of the globe will live in one by 2050.
Cities have driven much of the rise in living standards that has transformed humanity, but there are less positive features. Some are integral to what it means to live in an urban area – a faster pace of life and crowding. Others are merely associated – think poverty and crime. As a result, there has been a long debate about whether urban living itself or other problems get us down.
Two academics set out to answer that a few years ago. They looked at data from more than 200 US counties, finding that the least happy places were large cities, while the happiest were rural, but near large cities. As a Londoner, their conclusion is disappointing: urban living itself gets us down even without its problems. But perhaps the fact that people still flock to the capital goes to show that, while there is more to life than money, there’s also more to life than happiness.
Before city dwellers get more depressed, note that some see a brighter future. The residue of industrialisation and deindustrialisation and traffic jams might reduce the perkiness of urban life but perhaps the future of cities is pure joy – greener places where amenities are concentrated and long commutes avoided. Here’s hoping.
• Torsten Bell is chief executive of the Resolution Foundation. Read more at resolutionfoundation.org
