
# The 3 Best Large Room Air Purifiers

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:56:25+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/the-3-best-large-room-air-purifiers-19253384)

If you want to rid your home or office of dust, allergens, pet dander, or smoke particles in the air, the best large room air purifiers will help improve a room's air quality and keep it as clean as possible. However, for an open floor plan or an extra-large space like a living room or master bedroom, not every air purifier — even ones labeled as "large room" air purifiers — will do. So how can you find an air purifier that can work for your entire space?
When shopping for a large room air purifier, pay attention to the room size that an air purifier is labeled for. Some can clean air in rooms up to 500 square feet, while others are designed to handle rooms as large as 1,500 square feet. The size of your space will dictate which model is right for you.
Also consider other features like how fast they operate and how loud they are. The best large room air purifiers not only have the capacity to clean the air in spacious rooms, but they are able to do so in a relatively quick and efficient manner, even while running on quiet mode. While they typically cost more than your average small- or medium-capacity air purifier, they are worth the investment since a too-small air purifier won't be as effective in a large space or an open floor plan.
For an in-depth look at the best large room air purifiers, see the three top picks below.

        Levoit Air Purifier$300|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Best for: Rooms up to 710 square feet
What's great about it: Thanks to its smart features (it can detect particles in the air in 30 seconds and deliver accurate readings), as well as a three-stage filtration system that includes a HEPA filter, this Levoit air purifier has won over plenty of Amazon fans. This air purifier's auto-mode uses a smart laser to quickly read and display a room's real-time air and adjust. It also absorbs air from all sides, cleaning air up to 50% faster than standard purifiers. Even better, it's a great option for bedrooms since it is very quiet on its lowest mode (25 decibels), has a 12-hour timer (you can set it to your preferred time period), and has an LED screen that can be turned off so it doesn't interfere with your sleep.
What fans say: "We bought this one because we have a large open floor plan and the other ones didn’t cover it. I love that you can tell what your air quality currently is! That is helpful. I also like the wheeled feature to move it around."

        SilverOnyx Air Purifier$135|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Best for: Rooms up to 500 square feet
Why it's great: This SilverOnyx air purifier is an affordable option that doesn't take up a lot of floor space. It boasts an impressive five-stage filtration system that includes a pre-filter, a HEPA H13 activated carbon filter, a UV-C light, and an ion generator to remove dust, mold, and allergens from the air. This air purifier also comes in three different exterior color options to better blend in with its surroundings and is quiet (about 25 decibels) on its lowest setting. While this purifier is noticeably less expensive than other options, it also can accommodate the least square footage and isn't designed with a smart features like the other two on this list.
What fans say: "It does a great job in large areas. I have a dog and smokers in the home, and this purifier works well to remove odors and dander from the air."

        Coway Airmega 400 Smart Air Purifier$389|AmazonSee On Amazon
      
Best for: Rooms or open floor plans up to 1,560 square feet
Why it's great: For the largest coverage possible, look no further than this Coway Airmega 400 smart air purifier. While it's rather large in size, it is powerful enough to clean an extra-large space twice in just one hour. It can also detect real-time air quality and adjust accordingly when set to smart mode. This air purifier contains a two-stage filtration system with a permanent pre-filter to catch large particles and a combined HEPA and activated carbon filter to trap small pollen, allergens, and other pollutant particles. Plus, it has an eight-hour timer and five different speed modes: smart, sleep, low, medium, and high. This also is the quietest of the three on its lowest setting (just 22 decibels).
What fans say: "I love that it has a sensing feature that will crank up the motor when it detects extra pollutants in the air, such as when we're cooking. It speeds up about the same time every night, when the humidity level rises and I start coughing and sneezing. It also changes the color of its light so you know when it's working extra hard. It's almost silent on the lowest speed and I barely notice it at the next speed up. We have an open concept, so it has a large area to cover. So far, I'm very pleased with the job it's doing."

        Bustle may receive a portion of sales from products purchased from this article, which was created independently of Bustle's editorial and sales departments.
      
