
# Ont. elementary teachers vote 98 per cent in favour of strike action

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:55:00+00:00**

Author: **The Canadian Press**

Original: [www.ctvnews.ca](https://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/ont-elementary-teachers-vote-98-per-cent-in-favour-of-strike-action-1.4665980)

TORONTO -- Public elementary teachers in Ontario have voted 98 per cent of in favour of a strike should it become necessary.
The Elementary Teachers' Federation of Ontario is calling the result of the vote an "overwhelming" mandate from its 83,000 members.
The union filed for conciliation last month, saying bargaining with Premier Doug Ford's Progressive Conservative government had reached a virtual standstill.
High school teachers and teachers in the English Catholic system are also holding strike votes, with results expected in the next couple of weeks.
This round of bargaining has been tense, as it comes amid government attempts to impose caps on wage increases for public sector workers and increase class sizes, which will mean thousands of fewer teachers in the system.
A strike by 55,000 education workers -- such as custodians, administrative staff and early childhood educators -- was averted at the last minute when the government reached a tentative deal with the Canadian Union of Public Employees.
ETFO president Sam Hammond has said the government has told the union it's seeking $150 million in reductions to their collective agreement.
Major education unions have been critical of the government's overall direction since taking power last year, including moves to increase high school class sizes from an average of 22 to 28, boost class sizes for Grades 4 to 8 from 23 students to 24, mandate e-learning courses and reduce per-student funding to boards.
Those hikes to class sizes over four years would mean the loss of 10,000 teaching jobs, though Education Minister Stephen Lecce has recently said he has offered in talks with the Ontario Secondary School Teachers' Federation to scale back the increase in high school class sizes to 25.
But OSSTF has called that a "poison pill," because the offer would also mean local class size limits are removed, essentially allowing the province to see the number of students per class climb indefinitely.
