
# 'We Must Take Advantage Of Messi'

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:32:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/messi-ronaldo-neymar-watch-1/we-must-take-advantage-of-lionel-messi/666339)

Following Lionel Messi's remarkable performance in LaLiga on Tuesday night, during which he contributed to four goals, his teammate Arturo Vidal has insisted football should make the most of the Argentine while he is still around.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see some pictures of Messi in action on Tuesday night!
        
      
The 32-year-old was instrumental in FC Barcelona's 5-1 home win over Real Valladolid, scoring twice and assisting two further strikes.
One of Messi's goals came via a brilliantly taken free-kick, one that had many, including his own colleagues, in disbelief. After the game, Vidal was quick to praise his captain, saying he continues to surprise his own teammates day in and day out.

        
          Download The Soccer Laduma Social Media App & Earn Airtime for Selfies!
        
      
"It makes a difference with Leo giving all his quality. When he's like this, the team feels it," the Chilean told Movistar+.
"We see him every day, but he surprises us every day. Leo is from another planet.
"We are happy, we won, and the team felt good. I have no words to talk about Leo. You have to take advantage of it and make the most of him."

        
          10 Stars Who've Scored 100 Goals Or More Under One Manager
        
      
Messi has scored five goals and assisted a further five strikes in eight appearances for the Blaugrana so far this season.
