
# Richard Keogh's Agent Has His Say On Irish Defender's Derby Dismissal

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:34:38+00:00**

Author: **Oisin McQueirns**

Original: [PUNDIT ARENA](https://punditarena.com/football/oisinmcqueirns2758/richard-keogh-agent-derby-dismissal/)


        Richard Keogh’s agent has outlined that he believes Derby County have ‘opened up a can of worms’ after the club dismissed their former captain last week for gross misconduct.
      
The Republic of Ireland international had his contract terminated early after he was involved in a car crash which saw his teammates Tom Lawrence and Mason Bennett convicted of drink driving.
Both Bennett and Lawrence (who scored twice for Derby at the weekend) remain at the club while Keogh, who suffered a serious knee injury in the crash, has been dismissed.
Derby released a statement outlining that they dismissed him on the basis of gross misconduct with a report in The Times claiming that Keogh’s decision not to wear a seatbelt was a contributing factor in the club’s decision.
Many felt that Derby’s decision was more down to the fact that Keogh’s injury will see him miss over a year of action and that the punishment related to his age rather than the severity of his involvement.
Speaking to Talksport, Keogh’s agent Cos Toffis outlined that he feels if Keogh’s dismissal is upheld, it could set a dangerous precedent for other clubs to follow.
“I think it could be quite a big can of worms. If this goes in Derby’s favour there will be a lot of players in difficult positions at their football clubs.
“Older players with less market value who are on a lot of money, these are scenarios you have at every football club in the world. Should they start wrapping themselves up in cotton wool to avoid any situations like this?”
Quizzed on if Keogh should have known better than to get into the car with his team-mates after a night drinking, Toffis said: “I’m not going to accept that. I can’t really go into the events of the evening, but I do have a side of the events so I can’t accept what you just said.”
The Irish defender has 14 days to appeal the decision made by the club, from last Wednesday, but Toffis explained that there has been no contact between Derby and Keogh’s representatives since.
“The decision was made by them, they closed that door when they made that decision and since they did my phone hasn’t rung,” he said.
Keogh had been an integral part of Ireland’s push for Euro 2020 qualification before the incident which will now see him miss next summer’s tournament should the Boys in Green qualify.
