
# Letters to the Editor, Nov. 5, 2019: One can be committed to both Canada and the West

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:00:22+00:00**

Author: **Letters to Regina Leader-Post**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/opinion/letters/letters-to-the-editor-nov-5-2019-one-can-be-committed-to-both-canada-and-the-west)

I could not agree more with the views of Dr. Leeson and some of the sentiments in Murray Mandryk’s recent columns regarding that old counterfeit scare tactic known as western separatism.
Separate to what? There was a premier in this province who thought it was good politics to rail against his federal Liberal party and the East. It achieved absolutely nothing for him politically or for the province.
I covered a conference in 1970 in Lethbridge, sponsored by the university and newspaper there, which examined the prospects of Prairie union. It brought together political figures, academics and senior civil servants. In the keynote address by James A. Richardson, he noted that the role of the West in Confederation will ultimately be determined by people who are committed to Canada and to the West at the same time. Not just one or the other. He said they must understand the true nature of federalism and the merit of federalism all within the framework of a single nation.
Maybe with our smaller numbers it might be time for some political creativity. We will soon again contemplate the sacrifice of our young in war. More than 10,000 from our province alone. Check the endless graves in Europe or read the names on the Saskatchewan War Memorial on the Legislative Grounds.
What did they die for? Separation?

        Lorne Harasen, Regina
      
 
Oh boy, I’m glad that election is over. I’ve never seen so much muckraking.
Have we degenerated further into the U.S. system of emphasis on the negative and attacking individuals? Now we have the endless whining of being hard done by in Western Canada, one of the most affluent regions in the world. Listening to Moe and Kenney describing themselves as victims is repugnant.
We already have legislatures where disreputable behaviour is the norm, instead of our paid politicians working co-operatively, using consensus to do what’s best for all Canadians.
We need real electoral reform with a preferential ballot, 50 per cent to win and mandatory voting to overcome this ridiculous adversarial system that is run by all-powerful leaders, backroom boys and lobbyists.
Coalition governments are superior to majority ones, where most of the populace is held hostage to one party’s ideology. The climate crisis and the extreme polarization of wealth are the predominate issues we and future generations face today. It’s time to get serious and quit playing the me, me, me games.
I’ve voted in every election for 50 years, and I’m sick of this childlike behaviour. It’s time to grow up, politicians, and work together — because if you haven’t noticed, our country’s and the world’s troubles are very serious.

        Ivan Olynyk, Meacham
      
 
Regarding the Sarath Peiris article, Premier’s bombast is not statesmanship, L-P, Oct 29, I agree with all of his remarks but one: “We should expect more from Moe…”.
We cannot.

        Hugh Dorward, Eastend
      
