
# LeBoldus Golden Suns' Joe Camplin hopes to go out a winner

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:03:58+00:00**

Author: **Rob Vanstone**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/sports/football/leboldus-golden-suns-joe-camplin-hopes-to-go-out-a-winner)

It is November and Joe Camplin, a Grade 12 student at Dr. Martin LeBoldus Catholic High School, already has a final in mind.
Camplin is preparing for his last football game with the LeBoldus Golden Suns — Saturday’s Saskatchewan High Schools Athletic Association 6A final against the Saskatoon Holy Cross Crusaders (1 p.m., Mosaic Stadium).
Holy Cross was also the opponent in 2016, when LeBoldus won its fifth consecutive provincial title. Camplin, a standout on offence and defence, and receiver Ethan Kuski are the only current members of the Golden Suns who were also on the 2016 team.
“It has been too long, I would say, since we were able to win the last one,” Camplin says. “We were fortunate to win (the city final) last week, which we hadn’t done in a couple of years.
“I was there in 2016 and to have a chance to do it again as a senior with these guys would be great.”
LeBoldus defeated Holy Cross 47-29 in the 2016 final. The Golden Suns led 33-6 at one point, allowing head coach John Foord to use some of his younger players, such as Camplin.
Deployment in the provincial final was especially significant for Camplin because his older brother Ben, who was then in Grade 11, also played for LeBoldus. Ben Camplin is now a defensive back with the University of Saskatchewan Huskies.
Both Camplins have also excelled in basketball for the Golden Suns. Once football season is over, Joe will have a respite of about one week before his intensive sporting schedule resumes.
Joe Camplin’s versatility is also evident on the football field. In addition to playing linebacker and left offensive tackle, he is used at times as a tight end.
In one game this season for the undefeated Golden Suns, the 6-foot-3, 200-pounder scored on a reception and an interception return.
The contributions extend even further, considering that Foord lauds Camplin as “a high honours student, a leader, and a positive role model within our building.”
As much as Camplin enjoys football, he also takes considerable pride in what happens away from the field at LeBoldus.
“At the end of the day, you’re here to get your diploma and keep your grades up, and football is just a sport that you’re lucky enough to play when you’re in high school,” he says.
“It’s important to keep your grades up and Coach Foord is great with that, too. If you’re failing in a class or slacking in a class, he’s the first one to let you know. He won’t let you practise or anything like that if you’re not doing well in school.
“It’s probably part of the reasons we’ve been (to the provincial final) so many times. All facets are covered.”
Just one more step remains — Camplin’s final game of high school football.
“I think it’s going to be sad,” he says. “It’ll be a lot more sad if we don’t get a win, but I’m still lucky enough to have been able to play here for four years and meet so many people and be coached by so many great coaches.
“To have it come to an end will be a bittersweet day, so it’s tough to think about. There are a lot of great memories on that field out there. Hopefully it’ll end on the right note.”
• The SHSAA’s 5A final is set for Saturday at 1 p.m., when the Yorkton Regional Raiders will play host to the Saskatoon Bishop Mahoney Saints.

        rvanstone@postmedia.com
      

        twitter.com/robvanstone
      
 
 
 
