
# Inside zoos where skeletal bear sparks fury and animals are forced to live in filth

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:13:47+00:00**

Author: **Dave Burke**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/inside-zoos-skeletal-bear-sparks-20808708)

A starving bear, monkeys in tiny, rubbish-filled cages and chained tigers forced to 'pose' for pictures with smiling tourists.
These are just some of the distressing sights that have greeted visitors to zoos in Indonesia this year.
Now animal rights groups say an astonishing 90% of these attractions should not be allowed to operate.
Earlier this year a video of a distressed-looking skeletal sun bear was shared around the world.
And there was widespread condemnation as pictures emerged of animals living in filthy conditions at another zoo.
 
These are among a string of controversies which have prompted calls for urgent reform to end the suffering.
Marison Guciano, of the Indonesia Animal Welfare Society, told the South China Morning Post: “According to a search by wildlife monitoring group the Scorpion Foundation in 2017, around 90% of zoos in Indonesia are unfit for habitation.
“I think the situation has not changed much now.”
He said most zoos fail to meet five key criteria - keeping animals free from hunger and thirst, free from pain and injury, free from discomfort, free to behave as they would in the wild and free from stress.
 
In June shocking video of a sun bear at a zoo in Singkawang was shared more than 2,500 times on Twitter.
The clip shows the skeletal animal stretching as tourists look on.
In response the West Kalimantan Natural Resources Conservation Agency said it would monitor the bear.
More shocking pictures taken at a mini zoo in Cilodong, West Java, show animals in tiny cages surrounded by litter, were met with horror.
A visitor wrote on Twitter: “The situation is very improper, and this is open to the public. Are there actions that can be done? Guys, what should we do about this?”
Zoo bosses blamed tourists leaving behind litter, and pledged to clear the attraction up.
Another video filmed in March at the Taman Safari Cisarua in West Java shows a trainer appear to lash out at a tiger to make the animal look at a camera while visitors pose behind it.
In a letter to the country's Minister of Environment and Forestry, after the clip emerged, activists wrote: "We stand against wildlife attractions for the sake of entertainment rather than education. These attractions are a form of animal abuse and exploitation.
"Animal trainers and showmen frequently engage in negative reinforcement, whipping and striking animals, forcing them to carry out unnatural tricks and demonstrating that the animals can only be 'controlled' by pain and fear.
"Performance in the presence of spectators are likely to cause severe stress to captive wild animals.
"Loud noise is a well-known stressor; acoustical stress within and outside the human hearing range can cause critical alteration in physiological parameters for captive animals."
And the letter warned that the conditions animals are forced to live in can be highly damaging.
It stated: "Stress caused by such conditions can cause severe behavioural and physiological problems for captive wild animals.
"Even worse, society, in particular, children, become desensitised to animal suffering."
