
# Real's Goalscoring Woes Without Ronaldo Revealed

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:01:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/real-madrid-s-goalscoring-woes-without-cristiano-ronaldo-revealed/666768)

Real Madrid's form has somewhat declined since Cristiano Ronaldo's departure from the Santiago Bernabeu, and the full extent of the club's goalscoring woes without the Portugal star has now been revealed.

        
          Read: Cristiano Jr. Following In CR7's Footsteps
        
      
After spending nine seasons in Madrid, where he scored 450 goals in just 438 appearances, Ronaldo left the Spanish capital in a €100 million (R1.6 billion) deal to sign for Serie A giants Juventus last season.
Since the 33-year-old's exit from the club, Real have struggled to replicate the form that saw them win four UEFA Champions League titles in five seasons, which effectively resulted in the sacking of managers Julen Lopetegui and Santiago Solari.
Zinedine Zidane, who was at the helm for Real's three most recent European triumphs, has since returned to the club, but even the legendary Frenchman has faced difficulties in getting his side to fire on all cylinders.

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt! 
        
      
The biggest challenge facing Zidane's side is finding a way to replace the goals scored by Ronaldo, which, despite the good form of Karim Benzema, has not yet happened.
According to AS, Real have failed to score in 13 of their 57 matches played across all competitions since Ronaldo's departure, which amounts to 23.94% of all of their games.
This is a massive increase from the Ronaldo's time at the club, when the record 33-time LaLiga champions only failed to score in 8.86% of their fixtures.

        Click through the gallery below to see 10 records not yet broken by Ronaldo or Messi!
      
The Portugal international has scored 34 goals in 55 appearances for the Bianconeri since arriving in Italy last season, and has been nominated for the 2019 Ballon d'Or award.
