
# Mothercare 'plans to go into administration' with thousands of UK jobs at risk

Published at: **2019-11-03T23:06:31+00:00**

Author: **Neil Murphy**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/breaking-mothercare-plans-go-administration-20805304)

Mothercare is making plans that could see its UK business go into administration, it has been reported.
The move has put thousands of British high street jobs at risk as it becomes the latest retailer facing collapse.
The listed company is in advanced talks with lenders about fresh refinancing, according to Sky News.
But the radical restricting plans would not directly affect its publicly quoted parent company.
Mothercare's UK business represents only a small part of its overall group sales and is now dominated by its franchising business outside the UK.
Mothercare has been trying for several months to find a buyer for its UK business.
It opened its first store in the UK in 1961 in Surrey which now comprises just 79 standalone outlets.
The company has around 2,500 employees who are now facing redundancy.
In recent times, Mothercare has transformed itself into an international franchising group and trades from 1,000 stores in about 50 countries.
The struggling retailer, which fell to a £36.3million loss last year under a controversial company voluntary arrangement (CVA).
The news comes just months after Mothercare sold off its Early Learning Centre arm to The Entertainer for £13.5million.
Mothercare’s UK business has been unprofitable for more than a decade, which sparked a mass of closures last year.
In January, it warned of a "challenging period" after even digital sales at the retailer dropped 16.3%.
It blamed lower iPad sales led by its store closure programme as well as a smaller 'Toy offer' with less discounting.
By the end of March 2019, the chain's business store count had fallen from 137 in May 2018 to 79.
The company also said it is aiming to be debt free by the end of this year.
It blamed lower iPad sales led by its store closure programme as well as a smaller 'Toy offer' with less discounting.
By the end of March 2019, the chain's business store count had fallen from 137 in May 2018 to 79.
