
# Son Heung-min says he is ‘really, really sorry’ for Andre Gomes injury after scoring twice vs Red Star

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:30:01+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Veal**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/european/son-heung-min-sorry-andre-gomes-injury-tottenham-champions-league-goals-red-star-a9188561.html)

Son Heung-min has admitted that he still feels “really, really sorry” for his involvement in Andre Gomes’ horrific ankle injury last weekend, after the Tottenham Hotspur forward scored twice in his side’s crucial 4-0 victory over Red Star Belgrade in the Champions League.
Son bounced back from his weekend devastation as he scored two goals in Tottenham’s impressive 4-0 Champions League win at Red Star Belgrade.
He was visibly distraught after his tackle led to a horrific injury to the Everton midfielder on Sunday and he was a doubt to make the trip to Serbia as a result.
But he put it all behind him in Belgrade with a double in four second-half minutes to take his tally to nine Champions League goals in 2019 and five in four games this season.
And goalscorer Son admitted it had been a tough week following his involvement in the incident that saw Everton midfielder Andre Gomes suffer a horrific injury on Sunday.
He told BT Sport 2: “It was a really, really tough few days. I realised how lucky I am to have the supporters, my friends, my team-mates – everyone gave me such strong messages.
“Of course I still feel really, really sorry about this accident and this situation.
“I had to focus for the team. I had to keep going. I had to keep working hard. I think this is my right answer to all the people who support me.”
Tottenham’s victory means a win over Greek outfit Olympiacos in their next Champions League match will seal their progression to the knockout stages for a third consecutive season.
