
# Trump impeachment inquiry: All the latest updates

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:41:58+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Aljazeera](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/10/trump-impeachment-inquiry-latest-updates-191031130112567.html)

The Democratic-controlled US House of Representatives on Thursday held its first vote in the impeachment investigation of President Donald Trump. 
In a 232-196 vote, the House approved a measure establishing rules for public hearings and the release of transcripts from closed-door proceedings. The measure also outlined what rights Republican politicians and Trump himself would have to participate as the process moves ahead.
The impeachment inquiry focuses on a July 25 telephone call in which Trump asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to investigate Democratic political rival Joe Biden, a former US vice president, and his son Hunter, who had served as a director for Ukrainian energy company Burisma. Trump has denied wrongdoing and called the inquiry a sham. There has been no evidence of wrongdoing by the Bidens. 
The investigation examines whether Trump misused the power of his office for personal political gain and, if so, whether that rises to the level of "high crimes and misdemeanors" that merit impeachment and removal from office under the Constitution.
Here are all the latest updates.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Friday she expected public hearings in the impeachment inquiry of President Donald Trump to begin this month.
"I would assume there would be public hearing in November," the top House Democrat said in an interview with Bloomberg. Any case that is made to impeach the president, she said, "has to be ironclad."
On Thursday, the House, voting largely along party lines, passed a resolution formalising the impeachment inquiry and setting parameters for the public hearings.
President Donald Trump has said he would not cooperate with congressional impeachment proceedings and might read out loud a transcript of a July 25 call in which Trump asked President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate a domestic political rival, according to an interview with the Washington Examiner. 
"This is over a phone call that is a good call," Trump told the Examiner. "At some point, I’m going to sit down, perhaps as a fireside chat on live television, and I will read the transcript of the call, because people have to hear it. When you read it, it's a straight call."
Trump was referring to the informal evening radio addresses former US President Franklin D. Roosevelt gave to reassure Americans facing hardships during the Great Depression and World War II in the 1930s and 1940s. 
More Americans approve of the impeachment investigation into President Donald Trump than disapprove of it, though only about a third say the inquiry should be a top priority for Congress, according to a new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.
Overall, 47 percent said they support the impeachment inquiry, while 38 percent disapprove.
Protesters call to impeach President Donald Trump in Lafayette Square Park in front of the White House. [File: Carolyn Kaster/The Associated Press]
That solid, if measured, support serves as a warning sign for Trump's White House and reelection campaign, which have insisted that pursuing impeachment will end up being a vulnerability for Democrats heading into 2020.
But the findings present some red flags for Democrats, too. More people say House members are motivated mainly by politics rather than by duty as they investigate the Republican president's dealings with Ukraine and whether he abused his office or compromised national security when he tried to pressure the country to dig up dirt on a political rival.
The House impeachment inquiry is zeroing in on two White House lawyers privy to a discussion about moving a memo recounting President Donald Trump's July 25 phone call with the leader of Ukraine into a highly restricted computer system normally reserved for documents about covert action.
Deepening their reach into the West Wing, impeachment investigators are seeking testimony of two political appointees - John Eisenberg, the lead lawyer for the National Security Council (NSC), and Michael Ellis, a senior associate counsel to the president.
The lawyers' role is critical because two witnesses have suggested the NSC legal counsel - when told that Trump asked a foreign leader for domestic political help - took the extraordinary step of shielding access to the transcript not because of its covert nature but rather its potential damage to the Republican president.
Tim Morrison, who stepped down from the National Security Council a day before testifying in the House impeachment probe, confirmed some aspects of earlier witnesses testimonies while contradicted others during his appearance on Thursday, the Associated Press reported. 
Morrison largely confirmed much of what a top diplomat, William Taylor, said in earlier testimony, that the two had multiple phone conversations raising concerns about the Trump administration's approach towards Ukraine, the Associated Press cited a person familiar with the closed-door testimony as saying. 
Meanwhile, some Republicans said Morrison's opening statement contradicted another key witness, Army officer Alexander Vindman, who handled Ukraine issues at the National Security Council. Vindman testified Tuesday that he twice sounded the alarm over the Trump administration actions.
However, the specific contradictions were not immediately made clear. 
"Mr Morrison's testimony is very damaging to the Democrat narrative," Republican Representative Mark Meadows said. "They've all of a sudden gotten quiet today because this particular witness is very credible and has given evidence that suggests some of the other witnesses have been less than candid."
President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, condemned the passage of a resolution formalising the House impeachment inquiry on Thursday. 
Giuliani has loomed large over the probe, with several witnesses testifying before Congress that his role as an unofficial emissary to Ukraine often blurred what was considered official statecraft. 
"This is Speaker Pelosi weaponizing the House against the president and Schiff trampling over our Democracy," he wrote on Twitter, referencing leading Democrats in the House, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff. 
