
# Meghan Markle 'doesn't want people to love her' - but she has a stronger desire

Published at: **2019-11-01T12:21:09+00:00**

Author: **Zoe Forsey, https://www.facebook.com/zoeforseymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/meghan-markle-doesnt-want-people-20787758)

Meghan Markle has spoken openly about her feelings in recent weeks, admitting that she's struggling with the pressures of the royal spotlight.
Her interviews on Tom Bradby's ITV documentary about the Sussexes have sparked much debate about how the couple have been treated by the press and their fans.
But Meghan has reportedly said that she doesn't mind if people don't love her, and that she cares more that people listen to what she has to say.
The Telegraph's Bryony Gordon, who has known Meghan since just before her Royal Wedding to Prince Harry, says that the Duchess cares deeply about using her position and her voice to help as many people as she can.
 
She writes: "If I have learnt anything about Meghan in the time I have known her, it is that she is a doer not a wallower. She lives in the solution, not the problem.
"She told me that she didn't want people to love her - she just wanted them to be able to hear her."
Even before joining the Royal Family, Meghan championed a number of causes particularly girls' education and equality. 
She has used her new platform to draw extra attention to these causes, including One Young World, an organisation that gathers young people from around the world to try and tackle different issues.
 
Last week she attended the organisation's summit opening ceremony, sitting next to Nobel Peace Prize recipient Professor Muhammad Yunus.
During her Royal Tour of Africa earlier this year, Meghan gave a number of speeches about charities she visited and the people she met.
The most powerful came on her first day during a visit to a township in South Africa's 'murder capital'.
Speaking about charity Justice Desk, she said: "The work that’s being done here is to keep women and children safer, which is needed now more than ever. This is an issue that’s been at the forefront of people’s minds here in South Africa, and of course across the globe, particularly over this past month.
"And just on one personal note, may I just say that while I am here with my husband as a member of The Royal Family, I want you to know that for me I am here with you as a mother, as a wife, as a woman, as a woman of colour and as your sister.
"I am here with you and I am here FOR you and I thank you so much for showing my husband and I the spirit of Ubuntu and I look forward to our time over the next few days together."
