
# Zion Williamson Says Right Knee Is Getting ‘Stronger Day By Day’

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Zagoria**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/adamzagoria/2019/11/07/zion-williamson-says-right-knee-is-getting-stronger-day-by-day/)

In his first public comments since undergoing surgery on his right meniscus 17 days ago, Zion Williamson said his surgically-repaired right knee is getting “stronger day-by-day.”
“It’s going very well, day by day getting better and I think it’s going very well,” the New Orleans Pelicans rookie and No. 1 draft pick told reporters in New Orleans Thursday.
Asked how he was feeling, Williamson said: “I do feel like it’s getting stronger day-by-day. The trainers are telling me day-by-day it’s getting stronger and I can feel the difference each day.”
Williamson said he felt “soreness after the San Antonio game” on Oct. 13. He then missed the team’s last preseason game with the Knicks on Oct. 18 before undergoing surgery Oct. 21.
“I was hurt at first because I wasn’t able to go to the first game,” he said. “I haven’t been to any away games because the team supports me and they want me to stay here and keep rehabbing and come back as quickly as possible. I have been able to be around the team a lot more now. It sucked at first but it’s getting better day by day.”
There is no timetable on his return. The initial timetable was 6-8 weeks.
“I think when I’m ready, no real timetable,” he said. “When I’m ready, I’ll come back.”
The Pelicans are 1-6 without him.
Through four preseason games, he averaged better than 23 points, six rebounds and two assists per game in just 27 minutes a night, while shooting an absurd 71 percent from the field. He had been installed as the favorite for NBA Rookie of the Year honors, but now several other rookies, including Ja Morant of Memphis and R.J. Barrett of the Knicks, are shining in Williamson’s absence.
At Duke, Williamson missed the final month of the regular season with a sprained right knee after blowing out his left shoe in a regular season game against North Carolina on Feb. 20.
He returned to help Duke beat Syracuse in the ACC Tournament quarterfinals, and then averaged 26 points as Duke advanced to the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament.
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski told me in July he feels Williamson should have never played summer league because his body was rusty from being on the awards circuit in April.
There have long been concerns about Williamson’s weight – he’s listed at 285 pounds – combined with the tremendous force he puts on his lower body when he comes to a jump stop.
“That violent action, I’m not sure the human body can deal with that on a consistent basis,” one veteran NBA scout said Friday. “Eventually it catches up to you.”
Before he began his career at Duke, one NBA scouting director told me there were concerns about Williamson’s weight heading into the NBA.
"I think Coach K's right: I think he is graceful [at 285 pounds],” he said. “My concern is over the course of 82 games, that's a lot of weight to lug around at that size. If you play 82 games trying to carry that much baggage, it could be a concern going forward. Unless he drops some weight and can learn to keep it off, like [Caleb] Swanigan was. He's not as big as Swanigan was, but I'm using that as an example. That guy lost that weight and learned to keep it off and that body works for him.
"If that body works for Zion, fine. But he can't be like the normal player who is going to gain weight as he gets older. That's where the concern is. Most guys if they're 280 now, when they're 26 what's he going to be? Most guys if they're 215 now, they're going to be 240 when they're 26.
"Is it a concern going foward? It has to be, and yet he carries it well now so it's not like he can't dominate.”
Speaking last month on Sirius NBA radio, former women’s star Cheryl Miller suggested Williamson needed to lose about 15 pounds to help himself withstand the punishment of an NBA season.
“I would have him drop like 15, 17 [pounds],” Miller said. “Dietary issues, making sure that his strength and conditioning coach is right there by his side.
“If he wants longevity in this league in being the type of player that we’ve seen, he has to do the right things by his body, period, period,” Miller added.
