
# UFC 244 Full Fight Video: Watch Vicente Luque Knock Out Bryan Barberena

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trent Reinsmith**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/trentreinsmith/2019/11/01/ufc-244-full-fight-video-watch-vicente-luque-knock-out-bryan-barberena/)

Vicente Luque was 7-2 in the UFC welterweight division heading into 2019. Despite all seven of his wins coming by way of stoppage, the Brazilian was unranked when he was matched up against Bryan Barberena at UFC on ESPN 1 in February. Luque was a whopping -500 favorite by the time the two stepped into the octagon.Before the first round was halfway over, Barberena's face was marked up by the heavy strikes his opponent was landing. However, Barberena's toughness showed through when he scored a knockdown. Luque recovered from the blow that dropped him almost immediately and locked in a submission attempt. Barberena escaped from the choke, but once again found himself locked up in another submission attempt not long after his escape. When Barberena slipped out of that hold, he landed a flurry of head strikes to end the round. 
The second stanza was a nasty display of striking from both men. Luque threw his strikes with everything he had, but Barberena seemed unfazed by the blows. He kept his hands at his waist, ate the strikes from his opponent and returned fire. The two landed a combined 128 significant strikes in the second stanza.
The two embraced to start the third round and then got right back to trying to knock each other out. As the clock ticked down below 30 seconds of the final round, the fighters threw caution to the wind. It was Luque who found the finish when he landed two knees from the clinch to end the fight at the 4:54 mark of the last round. The loss was the first knockout defeat of Barberena's career. 
The matchup won "Fight of the Night," and when 2019 comes to a close, there's a good chance this contest will be in the running for "Fight of the Year." 
Luque won his next two fights. He has crept into the top 15 of the division and looks to make a big jump in the rankings when he faces former two-time welterweight title challenger Stephen Thompson on Saturday's UFC 244 fight card.
UFC 244 takes place Saturday at New York's Madison Square Garden. The pay-per-view card airs on ESPN+ following prelims on ESPN2 and ESPN+.
Before that contest takes place, watch Luque slug it out with Barberena. 

        More From UFC 244:
      
