
# 7 days, 2 Soweto derbies: Ernst v Rhulani

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:12:00+00:00**

Author: **Tashreeq Vardien - Sport24**

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/7-days-2-soweto-derbies-ernst-v-rhulani-20191101)

Cape Town - Three months into the domestic season and soccer fans are relishing the prospect of two Soweto derbies over the next seven days.
The first encounter will see Kaizer Chiefs 'host' arch-rivals Orlando Pirates at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban in their Telkom Knockout quarter-final on Saturday.
Saturday will be a massive sporting day for South Africa when the Springboks target a third World Cup triumph against England in Japan prior to kick-off in the soccer.
The rugby kicks off at 11:00 (SA time) while the soccer starts at 15:00.
Amakhosi have been coasting in the Absa Premiership - 22 points from 9 games - which sees Ernst Middendorp's side lead the chasing pack in the log standings.
Their recent win against champions Mamelodi Sundowns has firmly put the Glamour Boys in the driving seat for a first league crown since the 2014/15 campaign.
However, the Brazilians and fellow league challengers Bidvest Wits will not go down without a fight as the season progresses.
In eighth position on the table, Rhulani Mokwena's Buccaneers have been struggling since the shock departure of head coach Milutin Sredojevic to Zamalek in August - two weeks after the start of the season.
The 32-year-old Mokwena has been entrusted by owner Irvin Khoza as the Sea Robbers' interim coach, and quite frankly, the level of performance has dropped under his watchful eye.
A lucky midweek 1-0 win against an in-form Highlands Park, courtesy of poor officiating, will have the Buccaneers eager to prove their worth on Saturday.
Pirates have only 12 points from 9 matches - 10 behind leaders Chiefs.
The second fixture (Saturday, November 9) will be an Absa Premiership clash at the FNB Stadium where tickets are fast approaching being sold out.

        TELKOM KNOCKOUT QUARTER-FINAL FIXTURES:
      

        Friday, November 1
      
Maritzburg United v Highlands Park - 20:00

        Saturday, November 2
      
Kaizer Chiefs v Orlando Pirates - 15:00
SuperSport United v Golden Arrows - 20:15

        Sunday, November 3
      
Chippa United v Mamelodi Sundowns - 15:00
