
# ISL: Santana stars in Odisha's 4-2 win

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:26:42+00:00**

Author: **Anil Dias**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/sports/football/indian-super-league/top-stories/isl-santana-stars-in-odishas-4-2-win/articleshow/71847840.cms)

MUMBAI: Mumbai City FC coach Jorge Costa was worried about the fact that injuries to key players meant that he had to field an all-Indian lineup. His nightmare turned into reality just nine minutes into Mumbai's first home game of the Indian Super League season against Odisha FC at the Mumbai Football Arena here on Thursday.
The opener was as easy as it could be. After receiving the ball on the left flank, Odisha's dangerous striker Xisco Hernandez just ran down the right flank. Though Mumbai defenders Pratik Chaudhary and Subhashish Bose was marking him, they were just too slow. Hernandez, cut in and unleashed a powerful left-footer to open the scoring. It was a rehearsal of what was to come as Odisha, riding on an Aridane Santana brace, thumped Mumbai 4-2 to hand the hosts their first loss of the season.
Odisha had lost their opening two games but they didn't show any nerves on the field. Though Mumbai started off better, Odisha was soon dictating terms from the midfield.
After Hernandez's opener, Santana doubled the lead thanks to some excellent work on the right flank by the diminutive Jerry Mawhmingthanga. After receiving a through ball from defender Shubham Sarangi, Jerry used his pace to outrun Mumbai's Bose at ease, before squaring it for Santana, who was waiting in the middle. Great strikers don't need second chances and the 6ft 3in Spaniard made no mistake, slotting it past goalkeeper Amrinder Singh.
Mumbai had a great chance to pull one back in the 32nd minute when Kevyn Angoue found himself open in the box after a delightful pass by Paulo Machado. Angoue had all the time in the world but the midfielder from Gabon skied his shot much to the dismay of home fans.
After that Mumbai were all over the place. They weren't able to string even five passes together. The visitors though, kept on pressing, trying to pounce on every mistake.
They put the result beyond doubt in the 41st minute with Jerry getting on the scoresheet after Amrinder tried to keep out a Nandhakumar Sekar shot.
Mumbai started with promise in the second half and managed to pull a goal back in the 51st minute when they were awarded a penalty for a foul on Kevyn. Mohamed Larbi stepped up to take the shot and slammed it down the middle, beating the diving goalkeeper.
If Mumbai had an iota of hope, Santana crushed it with a fiery header in the 73rd minute, meeting a pinpoint cross by Jerry. The hosts did get a consolation goal in the 90th minute when Bipin Singh tried to cross from the left flank.
Odisha goalkeeper Francisco Dorronsoro, who did a stellar job till then, made a mess of the collection, fumbling to see the ball end up at the back of his net.
