
# 8 Ways To Make Thanksgiving Travel Less Stressful

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Geoff Whitmore**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/geoffwhitmore/2019/11/05/8-ways-to-make-thanksgiving-travel-less-stressful/)

Travel can be stressful enough already but holiday travel is in its own league entirely. It seems like everyone in the country is rushing around, trying to get somewhere. Sometimes you don’t even want to go to that somewhere in the first place (not every traveler wants to be home for the holidays, after all).
Emotions can run high. However, there are a few things you can do to make your Thanksgiving travel less stressful. 

        1. Plan
      
The less you plan, the more stress will ensue. Don’t wait until the last minute to book your flight, your hotel, your Airbnb or your rental car. You’ll just have more trouble finding the options you want, at the price point you want. In fact, if you haven’t booked everything you’ll need for your Thanksgiving travel by this point, do it now.
Today. The sooner, the better.
Don’t just plan your travel, though. Also plan when you’ll be at what relative’s house, what you might need to bring, etc. Having a detailed itinerary going into the holiday can give you a feeling of control over what might otherwise be a hectic and hair-raising experience. 

        2. Ditch Checked Luggage
      
Beyond the fear that your luggage might go missing, let’s say that your luggage actually does make it to the airport. Do you really want to stand at that luggage carousel, waiting with a hundred or more other passengers for your bag to come around, while your relatives are outside waiting? Perhaps they’ll be idling in the pick-up zone while they wait for you (since parking can be a mess itself).
Pack light, for both more peace of mind and an easier trip overall. 

        3. Consider Your Options 
      
Have you looked into all your options for getting home for the holidays? Maybe you can get a cheap flight if you travel out of an airport you normally wouldn’t consider. Perhaps taking the train between major cities will give you some time to rest and recharge before seeing the family, making it a preferred option to fighting your way through hours of urban traffic.
Look at all modes of transportation open to you. Consider them from a variety of angles, including cost, convenience, peace of mind, personal preference and time commitment. 

        4. Do Overpack This One Area
      
So you don’t want to overpack when it comes to your actual luggage, but when you’re looking at the tech you’re bringing with you, it’s likely better to err on the side of more is better. We’re talking an extra charger or two, a spare battery and more downloaded shows and other entertainment than you normally might need.
You never know when your tech is going to fail you, leading to a meltdown either on your part, or that of a cranky kid (or spouse). 

        5. Ditch Your Own Car
      
There are a few reasons why it makes sense to ditch your own car when traveling over the Thanksgiving holiday. Firstly, if you’re driving to your destination, you’ll save on mileage and you won’t need to perform any needed car maintenance to get you from Point A to Point B.
Secondly, if you’re flying, taking an Uber to the airport or hitching a ride with a friend will save you costs on parking and time as you look tirelessly for a parking spot. If, though, you absolutely want to park at the airport, reserve your parking ahead of time.

        6. Look For Alternatives
      
Do you really have to fly home on Wednesday and fly back on Sunday? Look for alternatives to your travel that might not only be more affordable, but also more convenient.
Flying on Thanksgiving can be particularly appealing, as flights are often cheaper and not as many people want to fly on the actual holiday. However, try not to fly on Tuesday, often the busiest day to travel before Thanksgiving.

        7. Give Yourself Plenty Of Extra Time
      
You might normally not need to get to your airport until an hour before your flight leaves, but never leave anything to chance during the holidays. Arrive at the airport extra early and maybe even use a handy airport app that’ll tell you how long TSA lines happen to be at any given moment.
Give yourself plenty of extra time once in your destination, too. Don’t try to stretch yourself too thin, running from engagement to engagement, or you might just find that your holiday wasn’t really enjoyable at all. 

        8. Stay Well
      
Lastly, if there’s one thing that could possibly make Thanksgiving travel more of a headache than it already is, it is being ill with the common cold. Since Thanksgiving is right smack in the middle of cold season, you’re at risk.
Even though the season is hectic and busy, try to pay attention to your health leading up to your Thanksgiving trip, by reducing stress, eating right, exercising, getting your vitamins and washing your hands frequently.
