
# Why Did U.S. Cellular Stock Fall 15% On Friday

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Trefis Team**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/11/05/why-did-us-cellular-stock-fall-15-on-friday/)

Regional wireless carrier U.S. Cellular (NYSE: USM), saw its stock decline by about 15% in Friday’s (1st November) trading after it posted weaker than expected Q3 earnings, although revenues beat expectations. The company lost 19k postpaid subscribers over the quarter, compared to 1k losses in the year-ago quarter, partly due to the defection of connected device users and feature phone users. Separately, the company also indicated that the uncertainty surrounding the proposed merger between T-Mobile and Sprint – the third and fourth-largest U.S. carriers, was resulting in some difficulties in its planning and securing new partnerships. Below, we take a look at how the company has fared over the last few years and the potential outlook over the next year.View our interactive dashboard analysis on Why Did U.S. Cellular Stock Tank 15% On Friday

        How does United States Cellular’s Revenue Growth in 2018 compare with that in prior periods and what’s the forecast?
      
Total Revenues for United States Cellular marginally increased from $3.89 Bil in 2017 to $3.97 Bil in 2018; an increase of 1.98%.
This compares with Total Revenues growth of:
We expect Total Revenues growth to be 1.41% in 2019.

        How does United States Cellular’s Total Expense in 2018 compare with that in prior periods and what’s the forecast?
      
Total Expense for United States Cellular decreased from $4.16 Bil in 2017 to $3.75 Bil in 2018; a decrease of -9.85%.
This compares with Total Expense growth of:
We expect Total Expense growth to be 1.8% in 2019.

        How does United States Cellular’s EBT 2018 compare with that in prior periods and what’s the forecast?
      
EBT for United States Cellular increased from -$272 Mil in 2017 to $215 Mil in 2018. We expect EBT to decline by about 6% to $202 Mil in 2019.

        How do United States Cellular’s Net Income and EPS in 2018 compare with that in prior periods and what’s the forecast?
      
For more information on the United States Cellular’s Net Income and EPS, view our interactive dashboard analysis.
 
What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams| Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own
