
# Trump offers Mexico help after Americans killed and urges voters to go to polls

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:49:00+00:00**

Author: **Robert Schroeder**

Original: [MarketWatch](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/trump-offers-mexico-help-after-americans-killed-and-urges-voters-to-go-to-polls-2019-11-05?amp%3Bsiteid=rss&amp%3Brss=1)

President Donald Trump offered help to Mexico on Tuesday after a Mormon family was killed, and encouraged voters to head to polls in elections that could provide clues about the 2020 contest.

        MEXICO VIOLENCE
      
After at least nine members of a Mormon family who held both U.S. and Mexican citizenship were killed during a drug cartel attack, Trump said on Twitter, “If Mexico needs or requests help in cleaning out these monsters, the United States stands ready, willing & able to get involved and do the job quickly and effectively.”
The Associated Press said the family was from a breakaway faction of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
Trump spoke with Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said in a statement. “President Trump made clear that the United States condemns these senseless acts of violence that took the lives of nine American citizens and offered Mexico assistance to ensure the perpetrators face justice,” Gidley said. Reuters said the Mexican leader noted he did not believe that foreign intervention would be necessary.

        TRUMP GETS OUT THE VOTE
      
A day after stumping for Gov. Matt Bevin of Kentucky, Trump was back to urging voters to pick the GOP leader in Tuesday’s gubernatorial race. He also retweeted a comment from “Fox & Friends” saying how the “impeachment hoax” had motivated voters in Kentucky, Mississippi and Louisiana, and linked to a polling-place finder.
Now read: Growing support for impeachment probe, WSJ/NBC News poll finds.
In the Kentucky and Mississippi governor races, Democrats could pull off upsets in states that voted for the Republican president in 2016. Another race to watch on Tuesday is Virginia, where Democrats could flip the state Senate and the House of Delegates.
Sign up for Trump Today and more MarketWatch newsletters.
