
# Crane collapse kills worker, injures another at Tan Tock Seng Hospital

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:23:02+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Singapore**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/singapore/news/crane-collapse-kills-worker-injures-another-at-tan-tock-seng-hospital/)

A construction worker died this morning at the site of a new Tan Tock Seng Hospital rehabilitation facility after a tower crane boom came crashing down from the 10th floor level.
Another worker was injured and has been taken to the hospital, emergency responders told Coconuts Singapore today. 
The Singapore Civil Defence Force said it received a call for assistance along Jalan Tan Tock Seng at about 8:50am, and first-responders pronounced the man dead at the scene. They did not disclose the victims’ ages, names, or nationalities. 
Workers on site told reporters the man who died was an Indian national, while the other was from Bangladesh and injured his leg in the incident. 
An eyewitness reportedly saw that the worker was stuck atop the broken crane and had spent about 20 minutes trying to climb his way down, without elaborating further. 
A photo of the scene posted to Facebook shows a worker wearing a uniform lying motionless on the ground. Videos also show the crane tower bent following the collapse of its boom.
Construction of the upcoming 500-bed facility focusing on patients in recovery began in March 2017 and was slated to be completed in 2022, according to the hospital’s website. 

        Related stories:
      

        Foreign worker falls to death from 10th floor of Tampines construction site
      

        Construction site accident at Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine leaves 1 dead
      
