
# ‘Summer: The Donna Summer Musical,’ A Celebration Of The ‘Queen Of Disco’

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Steve Baltin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevebaltin/2019/11/07/summer-the-donna-summer-musical-a-celebration-of-the-queen-of-disco/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2810771044&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

There is a scene in Summer: The Donna Summer Musical, which had its official L.A. opening  last night at the Hollywood Pantages, where Donna Summer, born LaDonna Adrian Gaines, is talking about her frustrations at being pigeonholed as the “Queen of Disco.” Then another member replies, “To be the queen of anything is good.”That scene sums up so much of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame career of Summer (who, of course, was inducted in 2013, after her death in 2012 of lung cancer). Summer became an icon, but as the “Disco Sucks” backlash, in hindsight a seriously misguided and unjust movement, began in the late '70s and carries full force into the '80s, her musical legacy was dragged down with the disdain of disco.
However, as the one hour, 45-minute play reminds us, by telling her turbulent life story though her incredible resume of hits—“Last Dance,” “On The Radio,” “I Feel Love,” “Bad Girls,” “Hot Stuff,” “Love To Love You,” “MacArthur Park,” “She Works Hard For The Money” and more—Summer is an all-time great pop artist, a woman whose work transcends any one genre and who, with producer Giorgio Moroder, helped pave the way for countless artists from Madonna to Daft Punk.
Summer features three different actresses playing her at various points in her life—as a child, from a teen into her star years, and the veteran version that they label “Diva Donna,” looking back on her life. All three actresses—Dan'yelle Williamson, who plays both Diva Donna and her mother Mary Gaines; Alex Hairston as “Disco Donna” and Olivia Elease Hardy as the young Donna and her daughter, Mimi—are not only powerhouse vocalists, particularly Williamson, who shook the Pantages at times with her vocals, but they are also exceptional.
There is a scene where Summer, who had undergone a nasty business breakup with music industry legend Neal Bogart, the head of Casablanca Records, is told of Bogart’s death from cancer, and Hairston, playing Summer at that part, breaks down. It is a powerful and moving scene.
Unfortunately, like a lot of great artists, Summer’s work came out of the deep pain in her life, which, packed into one hour and 45 minutes, becomes a lot to take. There is a stalker scene, where one of her admirers from Germany, threatens her in her home; sexual abuse from a pastor: and a suicide attempt and move to Germany for a role in the show Hair because she witnessed a murder.
Her often difficult relationships with men are a recurring theme in the show. But she did find love later in life with musician Bruce Sudano, who is played by Steven Grant Douglas. Douglas is superb delivering the right amount of empathy and support while not competing with the trio of Summers.
Trying to squeeze so much into a short time, the play is at times often clunky. But then the script is not the star of this show by any means. Nor is it meant to be. The star of Summer is the music. And the strong cast and music ultimately create a joyous celebration of a true icon.
