
# Maya Jama shows off wound after cracks head open on door handle

Published at: **2019-11-07T19:41:03+00:00**

Author: **Will Twigger, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/will-twigger/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/maya-jama-shows-wound-after-20835609)

Maya Jama took to Instagram to show off a bloody wound on the top of her head.
The Radio 1 presenter had whacked her head on a door handle in her apartment, splitting her head open.
The 25 year old captioned a video: "When will the bad luck end?!"
She laughed: "Not gonna lie, Mercury retrograde thing, this is mad.
"I just bent over and hit my head on my door handle and my head split open.
"What the f**k is going on? I do not have time."
The camera then cuts to Maya with a man. She tells fans: "So, the lovely gym manager in my apartments has come to save the day."
Leaning closer to the camera to give a good view of the cut, she chuckled: "Look at the f*****g state."
"You gotta laugh," she continued, "You have to laugh. I'm not gonna lie though, I never have this much bad luck ever, ever, ever, ever."
Last night saw the series finale of game show Don't Hate The Playaz, on which Maya is a team captain.
The ITV2 show, hosted by Jordan Stephens, pits Maya's team against the team of rapper Lady Leshurr.
It recently became the first UK show to feature an all black, all female panel - Maya and Lady Leshurr were joined by Sabrina Washington, comedians London Hughes and Sophie Duker and rapper Ms Banks.
Maya's been in the spotlight even more so than usual recently, after she split from grime legend Stormzy after four years of dating.
She sparked rumours of a new romance with boxer Anthony Joshua after sharing a snap of the two together.
"Working with this one today @anthonyfjoshua," she wrote.
Later she added: "Right, so he's teaching me how to fight."
Despite the fans in meltdown, Anthony shut down the rumours.
