
# Man Utd 3-0 Partizan Belgrade: 5 talking points as Red Devils run riot in Europa League win

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:51:35+00:00**

Author: **Matt Maltby, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matt-maltby/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/match-reports/manchester-united-3-0-partizan-20836060)

Manchester United made light work of Partizan Belgrade as superb goals from Mason Greenwood, Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford ensured the hosts booked their spot in the Europa League knockout stages.
Greenwood, 18, who became the club's youngest ever goalscorer in Europe with his winner against Astana in September, showed superb composure to sweep home for the opener at Old Trafford.
Martial soon doubled the Red Devils' lead in the first half with a stunning solo goal, picking up the loose ball on the edge of the box before gliding past two Partizan defenders and poking home beyond Vladimir Stojkovic.
Rashford, who formed part of United's three-man attack alongside Martial and Greenwood, later got in on the act in the second half when he smashed home a stunning first-time effort into the roof of the net.

        Here are 5 talking points from the Old Trafford clash...
      
Solskjaer is being true to his word this season and giving youth a chance, something he should be hailed for despite United's miserable start to the season.
And one player who has benefited from Solskjaer's philosophy is teenage striker Greenwood, who made in 12th appearance of the season on Thursday night.
Greenwood, 18, memorably scored the winner in the 1-0 Europa League win over Astana in September and was given another chance to give the Old Trafford faithful something to cheer about.
The Red Devils starlet delivered the goods with the opener, showing excellent composure when collecting the ball in the middle of the Partizan penalty area before sweeping it home for 1-0.
A sign of things to come, perhaps.
Rashford has enjoyed a pretty impressive start to the season, netting seven goals in all competitions before kick-off - but he had failed to find the net in the Europa League prior to this game.
And with just 15 minutes played, the England striker had already missed three glorious opportunities to score his first European goal of the campaign.
The first saw Rashford somehow drag his effort wide from 10 yards while his second effort, from six yards out, was a scuffed effort straight at goalkeeper Vladimir Stojkovic.
And the Red Devils star made it a hat-trick of misses when Aaron Wan-Bissaka found him with a lovely cross, but his first-time volley ended up in Row Z.
The striker eventually made amends with a lovely left-footed strike for United's third - his fifth goal in his last five starts in all competitions - but he should have had four by this point.
There's a reason Solskjaer was buoyant when Martial returned from a two-month injury lay-off last month to score two goals in four matches.
The Frenchman seems to have a good rapport with fellow striker Rashford, the pair often frightening opposition defences with their blistering pace and non-stop movement.
But this time, it was Martial's individual exploits which had his manager smiling on the Old Trafford touchline, the striker scoring a sensational goal to give the hosts a bit of breathing space.
It was wonderful footwork outside the box as he beat one man with an electric touch, then beat another one and squeezed the ball under the keeper from inside the box.
The Red Devils needed a performance on Thursday night, having been humiliated over the weekend when Bournemouth snatched a shock 1-0 win in the Premier League.
And they responded in perfect fashion, scoring three goals and putting on a mightily impressive attacking display in front of a delighted Old Trafford crown.
Before this Partizan win, United had only scored more than three goals on two occasions this season - against Chelsea and Norwich in the top flight.
But it wasn't just the goals that will have United's support licking their lips.
They were a constant attacking threat, with the movement of their trio of forwards, plus Juan Mata's influential display in midfield, causing the visitors problems throughout.
United seemed to have turned their season around last month and were on a three-game winning run before suffering that shock defeat at Bournemouth on Saturday.
But they bounced back from that Cherries embarrassment in impressive fashion - and now have the chance to regain that momentum and build a run of victories together ahead of the busy festive period.
On paper they have a favourable run-in over the next month, with their next four matches against Brighton , Sheffield United, Astana and Aston Villa.
And given they've guaranteed their place in the knockout stages of this European competition, Solskjaer will be able to rest key players for that Astana trip and focus on building on their current 10th-place position in the Premier League.
