
# Ocasio-Cortez Apologizes for Blocking Critic on Twitter

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:26:29+00:00**

Author: **Michael Gold**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/04/nyregion/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-twitter-dov-hikind.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)

Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the firebrand political star known for using her social media savvy to champion her progressive policies, has apologized to a former elected leader from Brooklyn who sued her for blocking him on Twitter.
“I have reconsidered my decision to block Dov Hikind from my Twitter account,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York, said in a statement released on Monday. “Mr. Hikind has a First Amendment right to express his views and should not be blocked for them.”
The apology was made as part of a settlement agreement in the lawsuit, which was filed by Mr. Hikind in July after a federal appeals panel ruled that President Trump, one of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s frequent detractors, had violated the Constitution when he blocked people from following him on Twitter after they criticized him.
The three-judge panel said that because Mr. Trump used his Twitter account to conduct government business, he could not bar some Americans from reading his posts or interacting with them.
Like Mr. Trump, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has used her Twitter account, @AOC, to promote her policy agenda, communicate her positions on issues and engage with the public. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has 5.7 million followers on that Twitter account, as well as 4 million followers on Instagram, where she is also active.
Ms. Ocasio-Cortez also has an official congressional account, @RepAOC, that has fewer than 200,000 followers and that she uses less frequently.
Mr. Hikind, a former assemblyman from Brooklyn who founded a nonprofit group that works to fight anti-Semitism, had engaged repeatedly with Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s posts, frequently criticizing her.
He said that he was blocked after he assailed her over remarks she made comparing migrant detention centers at the Texas-Mexico border to concentration camps.
“Suddenly, I could not be part of the conversation,” Mr. Hikind said on Monday. “I could not share my thoughts. My mouth was closed, shut. I could not respond.”
In his lawsuit, Mr. Hikind said that by denying him access to her posts on Twitter, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had violated his First Amendment rights to free speech.
In August, with the lawsuit ongoing, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said on Twitter that she had blocked fewer than 20 Twitter accounts for what she called “ongoing harassment.”
“People are free to speak whatever classist, racist, false, misogynistic, bigoted comments they’d like,” she added. “They do not have the right to force others to endure their harassment and abuse.”
On Monday, in her apology, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said that blocking Mr. Hikind “was wrong and improper and does not reflect the values I cherish.”
The apology was made public just one day before Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was scheduled to testify in Brooklyn federal court in the case.
Mr. Hikind said that while he had been looking forward to hearing Ms. Ocasio-Cortez explain her actions, he was pleased with her statement.
“She now recognizes that her decision to block me was wrong,” he said. “What can I say? I couldn’t ask for much more at this point.”
Elected officials at all levels and on both sides of the aisles increasingly use social media accounts to connect directly with constituents about policy or energize would-be voters during campaigns.
Mr. Trump in particular has wielded Twitter as a political tool, making the social-media site central to his presidency.
The Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, a nonprofit which represented a number of Twitter users who were blocked by Mr. Trump in a lawsuit against him, has argued that these activities effectively turn social media into a public forum that requires open access.
Numerous judges have agreed, as did Mr. Hikind.
“Every public official needs to unblock the public from following them on Twitter,” he said, adding, “You want to be in elected office? Don’t be afraid of what people have to say to you.”
In a statement, The Knight First Amendment Institute celebrated Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s apology.
“We hope that other public officials who are blocking critics from their social media accounts take Ocasio-Cortez’s lead,” said Katie Fallow, a senior staff attorney for the institute.
At least two other people who said they were blocked by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had filed complaints in federal court against her. Both cases were still ongoing, according to court records.
In her statement, Ms. Ocasio Cortez did not rule out ever blocking users from following her on Twitter in the future.
“I reserve the right to block users who engage in actual harassment or exploit my personal/campaign account, @AOC, for commercial or other improper purposes,” she said.
The appeals court ruling against Mr. Trump did not stop elected officials from acting to prevent threats, abuse or harassment.
Rebecca Liebson contributed reporting.

        Continue reading the main story
      
