
# Almost half of the £207 million deficit is from NHS Lothian

Published at: **2019-11-04T15:06:18+00:00**

Author: **John-Paul Clark, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/john-paul-clark/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/almost-half-207-million-deficit-20809785)

It has been revealed that NHS Lothian is responsible for almost half of the expected £207 million national deficit at Scotland’s 14 health boards.
An Audit Scotland report revealed that the deficit at Scotland’s 14 health boards would rise to £207m by 2021/22 and NHS Lothian makes up almost half of it with a predicted budget shortfall of £90 million.
Campaigners in West Lothian are currently battling with NHS Lothian to have the 24-hour children’s ward service restored at St John’s Hospital.
The yet to be opened new Royal Hospital for Sick Children is costing NHS Lothian £1.35 million a month and a further £16 million was spent fixing the ventilation, water systems and drainage. They have also shelled out nearly £500,000 in legal fees over contractual disputes. The hospital is scheduled to open next autumn and a public inquiry will look into what went wrong.
 
West Lothian has one of the fastest growing populations in Scotland, meaning increased future demand on health care services, and local politicians are demanding action now.
Miles Briggs MSP said: “£90 million is an insurmountable amount of money for an already overstretched health board to make up and could seriously impact on services.
“It looks likely that the Scottish Government will again have to bail out NHS Lothian to get them back to a level playing field. The NRAC formula for funding each health board must be reviewed so that we are not in the same position in a few years’ time.
Neil Findlay MSP said: “It is patients in the Lothians who are suffering due to the disadvantage NHS Lothian has been put at by SNP Ministers, as well as their mismanagement of tax payers money.”
“I hear week in, week out from constituents who are experiencing the real problems faced by our NHS. Whether it be growing waiting times, the lack of mental health support, the shambles at the St John’s children’s ward or the new Sick kids hospital, which lies empty costing tax payers £1.4 million a month, we can see the pressure the NHS is under. Staff and Patients know there is not enough money is the system and that change is too slow. NHS Lothian is facing a budget deficit of around £90 million, more than any other Scottish health board – the is unsustainable and is impacting negatively on patient care. The Government has to provide our precious NHS with the resources it needs.”
Angela Constance MSP said: “It is normal for NHS Boards to begin the year with a difference in projected expenditure and revenue and matters are resolved as plans become clearer. I would expect, however, the Scottish Government to be closely monitoring NHS Lothian given there comparatively poor performance on a range of issues recently.”
 
The NHS board covering greater Glasgow is also under pressure over standards at the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital, with NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, on a predicted deficit of £61.5 million.
A spokesperson from the Scottish government said: “Recent decisions by the UK Government have short-changed Scotland’s NHS by more than £90 million. Despite this, the Scottish Government is investing record levels in excess of £14 billion in our NHS and we will continue to protect our frontline services.
“The Scottish Government will continue to support NHS Boards in working towards a balanced and sustainable financial position, while ensuring that patient care remains the top priority.
“As has been demonstrated in previous years and again this year, it is normal for NHS Boards to begin each year with a relatively high variance against budget and for this to reduce throughout the year as savings plans are developed and as expenditure patterns become clearer.”
