
# Happy Birthday, Shah Rukh Khan: Top 10 highest-grossing films of the Badshah of Bollywood

Published at: **2019-11-02T03:00:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/entertainment/hindi/bollywood/box-office/happy-birthday-shah-rukh-khan-top-10-highest-grossing-films-of-the-badshah-of-bollywood/articleshow/71856293.cms)

The Badshah of Bollywood, Shah Rukh Khan has conquered the world with his charm and aura. Whenever the actor spreads his arms wide, people all over the world go weak on their knees. With nearly two and a half decades in Bollywood, Shah Rukh Khan is irreplaceable in our hearts and will remain so forever. As King Khan turns a year 54 today, fans all across the world have been pouring in love for the magical actor.
As King Khan continues to rule the Hindi film industry and our hearts too, here's a look at the top-grossing box office hits of his career!

        
          Chennai Express
        
      
Rohit Shetty directorial 'Chennai Express' starring Shah Rukh Khan and Deepika Padukone in the lead roles broke nearly all the box office records in 2013. The masala entertainer is the highest-grossing film of SRK with a lifetime collection of Rs 27.69 crore. The film had opened to a record-breaking Rs 30.48 crore on its first day at the box office. SRK played a 40-year-old North Indian man who falls in love with a young South Indian girl played by Deepika. The film did very well at the overseas box office too.

        Happy New Year
      
Released in 2014, the Farah Khan directorial saw Shah Rukh Khan and Deepika Padukone reuniting again for this film. The multistarrer broke box office records and is the second highest-grossing film of Shah Rukh Khan. The film did a lifetime collection of Rs 178.41 crore. The film was released in 3850 screens and opened to a huge Rs 36.31 crore on its first day at the box office.

        Dilwale
      
Released in 2015, Rohit Shetty and Shah Rukh Khan reunited once again for his romantic thriller which saw the actor sharing the screen space with quintessential actress Kajol. The film also featured Varun Dhawan and Kriti Sanon and had a perfect mixture of action, romance and comedy. The film did a lifetime collection of Rs 139.97 crore and had opened to Rs 20.37 crore on its first day at the box office.

        Raees
      
Shah Rukh Khan won a lot of praises for his thriller film 'Raees' which released in 2017. The film did well at the domestic as well as the overseas box office. The film had opened to the first-day collection of Rs 20.29 crore and did a lifetime business of Rs 128.77 crore. The film released across 3400 screens.

        Ra.One
      
High on VFX and the first of a superhero kind of film, Shah Rukh Khan's Ra.One is one of the biggest hits of his career. The film starred Kareena Kapoor Khan opposite SRK and Arjun Rampal played the lead antagonist in the film. Directed by Anubhav Sinha and produced by Gauri Khan, the film had opened to a collection of Rs 14.73 crore on its first day at the box office. The film did a lifetime business of Rs 113.94 crore and also grossed well at the overseas box office as well.

        Don 2
      
Farhan Akhtar directorial 'Don 2' saw Shah Rukh Khan revive his role of the undisputed King of the underworld. Priyanka Chopra shared the screen space with the actor in the film. The second installment of the franchise was a huge hit. The film had opened to a colletion of Rs 14.60 crore on its first day at the box office. The film did a lifetime business of Rs 106.44 crore at the box office.

        Jab Tak Hai Jaan
      
The Yash Chopra directorial saw Shah Rukh Khan sharing the screen space with two beautiful ladies - Katrina Kaif and Anushka Sharma. The film is a love story spanning a decade. The film earned a lot of praises for the actor. The film had opened to a colletion of Rs 12.61 crore on its first day at the box office. The film did a lifetime business of Rs 101.59 crore at the box office.

        Zero
      
Aanand L. Rai directorial 'Zero' saw Shah Rukh Khan essaying the role of a drawf for the first time. Anushka Sharma and Katrina Kaif once again reunited with King Khan for this film. The film was the last SRK release and since then the actor is yet to announce his next. 'Zero' however failed to impress at the box office. The film opened to Rs 18.78 crore on its first day and did a lifetime collection of Rs 88.74 crore in total.

        Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi
      
Shah Rukh Khan starrer opposite debutant Anushka Sharma in the film which went on to become a hit and the songs became chartbusters. The film was a huge hit in the actor's career and was loved immensely by his fans across the world. The film did a lifetime business of Rs 84.68 crore at the box office.

        Fan
      
The Maneesh Sharma directorial saw Shah Rukh Khan essaying double roles in the film. The film revolves around the life of young Gaurav, whose life revolves around the mega movie star Aryan Khanna, both the roles played by Shah Rukh Khan. The film had done a lifetime business of Rs 84.03 crore at the box office
