
# We Just Wanted to Talk E.U. Farm Policy. Why Was Someone Always Looking Over Our Shoulders?

Published at: **2019-11-03T08:00:07+00:00**

Author: **Matt Apuzzo**

Original: [NY Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/03/reader-center/eu-farm-subsidy-reporting.html?emc=rss&partner=rss)


        
          Times Insider
        
         explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.
      
We just wanted to talk to some scientists. That clearly made someone very nervous.
Early this year, Selam Gebrekidan and I set out to investigate Europe’s $65-billion-a-year farm fund, one of the largest subsidy programs in the world. It is by far the biggest line item in the European Union budget and represents a massive transfer of public money to a single sector: farmers.
Among our first stops was Ispra, Italy, and the Joint Research Centre, the scientific arm of the European Union. Scientists there conduct independent research to help politicians make better policy. We were just beginning to understand the subsidy program, and who better to help explain it than a group of dispassionate experts?
As it turned out, we had uninvited company. A pair of European Commission officials, we were told, insisted on joining the meeting by videoconference. That meant we had to hold our meeting in a cavernous conference room set up for summits. Every time we asked a question of a scientist sitting right next to us, we were reminded to activate our microphones so our minders in Brussels could hear.
Until last year, I covered national security in Washington. So I was no stranger to government babysitters sitting in on sensitive conversations. But this was farm policy. And the researchers in Ispra are supposed to operate independently of agricultural officials in Brussels.
That meeting was not what we had hoped for, but it was exactly the education we needed. Farm policy, we came to understand, is the third rail of European politics. Think of it like Medicare or Social Security, only shrouded in secrecy. And every time we tried to peek behind the curtain, European and local officials tried to swat our hands away.
What’s happening, we ultimately discovered, is that Europe’s farm subsidies are being used to prop up oligarchs, underwrite Mafia-style land grabs and create a modern spin on a corrupt feudal system.
The efforts to impede our reporting were not just maddening. They bordered on the absurd. Nowhere was that more clear than in our quest to obtain government data. The European Union claims that its subsidy program is transparent because all 28 of the bloc’s member nations must publish lists of aid recipients. But that’s just window dressing. The national governments allow farmers to hide behind shell companies. More important, the published data does not identify which farmland is being subsidized, making it impossible to effectively monitor where the money is going.
The European Union, we learned, maintains a database with all this information. But when we requested it, officials responded both that the data did not exist and that it did exist but could not easily be extracted. When we pointed out that the European Union had previously managed to extract the information for a World Bank study, they said the data was private. We appealed. We were denied again. Downloading the information from the government’s own computers was so complicated, officials said, that they could not be forced to do it.
We appealed again. But in the meantime, Selam and I went around them. We started with the national records and supplemented them with information obtained by former officials, whistle-blowers and local journalists. Selam and another colleague, Agustin Armendariz, wrote automated scripts to download payment data, parse Hungarian and Czech names, and look for patterns. Our colleague in Budapest, Benjamin Novak, tracked down a former senior Hungarian agricultural official, Jozsef Angyan, who had compiled a trove of land records. Torbjörn Jansson, an agricultural scientist, gave us subsidy data from a complex model that is regularly used by the European Union’s own scientists.
We were also particularly interested in figuring out how much money was going to the Agrofert, a company founded by the Czech prime minister, Andrej Babis. So we set out to compile a list of the company’s many subsidiaries. We consulted Agrofert’s annual reports, in Czech, along with a Czech watchdog and a Warsaw-based corporate intelligence firm, to make sure we had the full picture.
All this data, unfortunately, is still incomplete. It should not be this hard for the public to scrutinize one of Europe’s key policies.
The bureaucracy was one obstacle. Fear was another. On my first trip to Hungary, Ben and I met with an environmental scientist who specializes in agriculture. When I explained what we were trying to do — link government subsidies to landowners — the conversation ground to an awkward halt. The scientist said he did not know much about farmland use. He did not even know where most farmland could be found. He did not want to talk about his research, and could we please keep him out of our article?
It reminded me of our meeting in Italy, like someone was watching us.
Only later, after we spent weeks alongside farmers in the countryside, did it make sense. Farmers told us that criticizing the government is a sure way to invite an audit or end up blacklisted from grants. Mr. Angyan was also a professor at one of the top agricultural schools in the country. When he spoke out against the policies of the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orban, his state-run university abruptly shut down his program. Then the organic farm he supported lost its right to the land. Tractors plowed over the crops and sprayed the land with chemicals.
Mr. Angyan was instrumental in helping us understand how the European Union money flows to the oligarchs. But then he abruptly cut off contact. Months later, over a dinner of homemade sausage and fresh tomatoes in a tiny farmhouse kitchen, a farmer named Istvan Teichel explained that speaking out about agriculture corruption had cost Mr. Angyan nearly everything. “He will not put his family through these hardships again,” he said.
Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.

        Continue reading the main story
      
