
# FedEx Express launches direct access to its services in Oman

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:59:00+00:00**

Author: **Times News Service**

Original: [Times of Oman](https://timesofoman.com/article/2167487/Business/FedEx-Express-launches-direct-access-to-its-services-in-Oman)

Muscat: FedEx Express, a subsidiary of FedEx Corp. and the world’s largest express transportation company has announced its expansion in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, transitioning to a direct presence in the Sultanate of Oman.FedEx Express has been facilitating trade in Oman since 1993 by offering its services through a local service provider. This strategic expansion provides customers with access to an extensive international coverage to and from more than 220 countries and territories, a stronger customer care support system and a wider service portfolio, connecting businesses to new markets and customers across the globe.Jack Muhs, regional president of FedEx Express Middle East, Indian Subcontinent and Africa said, “We see great potential as Oman continues to evolve into a key logistics powerhouse in the Middle East and beyond. Oman connects the East and West of the GCC region, and in addition to business-friendly conditions, the Sultanate has comprehensive initiatives to integrate its road, airport and port networks. With access to our unparalleled Middle East road network and the world's largest air express network, FedEx Express connects Oman directly to the rest of the world.”This announcement by FedEx Express supports the country’s coordinated efforts and a broader strategy to diversify the national economy. The logistics sector is a key contributor towards employment, investment and overall economic growth in the Sultanate, and a critical part of the nation’s future growth.
In 2018, the Muscat International Airport invested in a new terminal, following the government’s expansion plans in the aviation sector. According to a recent report by the World Economic Forum, Oman ranks 8th globally in road infrastructure, while inflows of foreign direct investment and major infrastructure developments are the driving forces for the nation’s seaports.FedEx Express is committed to supporting economic sustainability across the Middle East, connecting local businesses and the region to 99 per cent of the world’s GDP.
