
# Slimming World mum supported after heartbreaking death of young son

Published at: **2019-11-04T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jak Ball**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/slimming-world-mum-supported-after-3492931)

A Plymouth woman says that Slimming World has changed her life and helped her deal with the death of her young child.
In 2013, Rebecca Hele had lost her confidence, was unhappy with her weight and was trying for a baby without success.
But 11 months after that, things couldn’t have been any more different for the then 30-year-old.
Bex joined Slimming World to support her mother, but soon found that weight was dropping off her. She was still eating plenty of her favourite foods but a more balanced diet and some understanding about food saw a body transformation she wasn’t expecting.
In just 11 months Bex lost three-and-a-half stone and in the same week that she discovered that she had reached her target weight, Bex found out that she was pregnant with her first child.
"My husband and I had been trying for a baby but it just wasn’t happening,” Bex said. “I had lost confidence in myself, my image and I was feeling pretty low.
"Thinking I was supporting my mum, I went along to my first group and instantly felt welcome. All of the preconceived ideas I had were wrong.
"There wasn’t any judgement and I soon realised I loved going to the group, I could continue to eat lots of my favourite foods and soon the weight was dropping off me.
"In 11 months, I lost three-and-a-half stones. I got my target weight the very same week I found out I was pregnant with our first child, Tommy. I continued to follow the plan throughout the pregnancy and felt very much in control of my weight all the way through.
"Slimming World’s food optimising plan is well suited to both pregnancy and breastfeeding and Slimming World work in partnership with the Royal College of Midwives."
Sadly her second child, Jack, was born with a rare heart condition and passed away at just nine days old.
However, Bex – now a Slimming World consultant – continued to attend meetings where she found great comfort and support.
