
# MSK Hosts The Fourth Annual Opening Of TEFAF To Strong Sales

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bettina Zilkha**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/bettinazilkha/2019/11/02/msk-hosts-the-fourth-annual-opening-of-tefaf-to-strong-sales/)

The Society of Memorial Sloan Kettering (MSK) hosted the 4th annual opening night of TEFAF New York Thursday at the Park Avenue Armory. Chaired by Nina Carbone, Fiona Druckenmiller, George Farias, Libby Fitzgerald, Jennifer James, Lisa McCarthy, and Betsy Pitts, the evening was generously underwritten by Fiona and Stanley Druckenmiller and sponsored by Etro. Iconic interior designer Alex Papachristidis served as Design Committee Chair. "TEFAF is one of the most important antique shows that comes to New York," said Papachristidis. "What's wonderful about TEFAF this year is the mix of incredible contemporary art with objects and furniture from the 18th Century - my favorite mix. It brings together a broad range of clients from all over the world."
Already a popular event among collectors, the energy at this year's TEFAF was even more upbeat than usual, and sales were brisk across the board. In its fourth year TEFAF has established itself as a must for anyone interested in the highest quality art, objects and jewelry, as well as anyone interested in supporting the important work MSK does.
"MSK is the best in class for innovative cancer care and treatment in the world," said Farias.  "I have had several friends whose lives have been saved there. To help support their extraordinary work and research is an honor."
Aerin Lauder Zinterhofer, Hilary Geary Ross, Elizabeth Callender, Rena Kirdar Sindi, Dennis Basso, Peter Marino, and Caroline and Tom Dean were dazzled by the vast array of offerings, from Picasso to JAR, and the exquisitely designed space.
At the entrance on the left, the Kugel brothers held court in their well curated booth for the third time at TEFAF New York. Though the fair had just opened, sales were already strong.
"TEFAF has never disappointed us," said Alexis Kugel. "It's a very exciting show."
Kugel's star piece was, as Alexis put it, "the ultimate picnic set." Commissioned by the King of Sweden from Napoleon's goldsmith, Biennais, the object is a lazy Susan for two people, for a three course meal. The only other known set is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
Upstairs, guests took a little break at the Ruinart champagne, oyster and salmon bar, before browsing the Fontanas at Robilant + Voena, and the unique pairings of old and new at other galleries, such as Colnaghi's antiquities with Ben Brown's modern and contemporary art.
"We enjoyed the challenge of mixing antiquities with contemporary," said Carlos Picon, Director of Colnaghi New York. "It gives a new perspective to the antiquities, so it's not just a whole sea of Greek, Roman and Egyptian sculptures and objects. It gives it a different flavor when you mix it with 20th and 21st century works."
Picon was particularly proud of a Roman table support from the first century AD, a figure of Pan smiling broadly, rescued from the bottom of the sea.
"He looks like he's planning something juicy - he was always full of mischief," said Picon.
Across the hall, Almine Rech was exhibiting for the first time at TEFAF. Her booth had already sold well, to both her regular collectors and people who happened to stop in by chance.
"This year I was invited by my friend, Anne-Sophie Duval, who specializes in Jean-Michel Frank, to partner her pieces with prints and drawings by Picasso. The relationship is direct - Jean-Michel Frank, Marie Laurencin, and Coco Chanel were all friends at the time - so it makes sense to show the pieces together."
High-end jewelry designer Olivier Reza has exhibited every year since TEFAF's inception. The fair has been a success for him.
"I meet new people every time, and I get repeat business," said Reza. "I sell well, and the fair always brings something different."
One of the highlights at Reza was a bracelet made of emerald-cut sapphires and diamonds.
"We show as much of the stone as possible," said Reza. "When you look at the bracelet, both sapphires and diamonds are captured by a ribbon of metal that completely reveals them."
MSK's new president, Kate Allen, was thrilled by the evening's partnership and turnout.
“We're so lucky and grateful to be affiliated with TEFAF, and to be with them on opening night,” said Allen. “They are the premiere international art and antique show, and we are one of the best cancer hospitals in the world. There is great synergy between us.”
