
# OxygenOS Open Beta 5 update for OnePlus 7 series brings new features and performance improvements

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Raka**

Original: [MSPoweruser](https://mspoweruser.com/oneplus-rolls-out-oxygenos-open-beta-4-to-oneplus-7-series-adds-a-new-gesture-weather-channel-and-more-2/)

OnePlus is now rolling out the OxygenOS Open Beta 5 to OnePlus 7 and OnePlus 7 Pro smartphones. This new update comes almost two weeks after the Open Beta 4 update which introduced useful new features such as “Raise to lower the ringtone” gesture. OnePlus’s latest OxygenOS Open Beta 5 too, brings important new features alongside bug fixes and performance improvements.
The noteworthy new feature that is new in this Open Beta update is more to do with privacy than anything else. With the update installed, users will receive alerts for the applications with the permissions access to the camera, location, etc. This will be a useful feature, at least to privacy enthusiasts.
There update brings other important changes and these are optimized adaptive brightness, optimized touch experience while playing games, and more. You can see the official changelog below.
The update, however, is not available to anyone at this moment, because developers at OnePlus are still in the process of fixing an issue. The good news is that OnePlus will release the update next week, so it’s just a matter of a few days.
Before you proceed, don’t forget to back up your smartphone and make sure that the battery level is above 30%. Also, 3GB of available storage space is required for a smooth update process.
Source: OnePlus
