
# Ravichandran Ashwin and franchise concluded it was best to part ways, reveals Ness Wadia

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:18:57+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/ravichandran-ashwin-and-franchise-concluded-it-was-best-to-part-ways-reveals-ness-wadia?utm_medium=rss)


        Kings XI Punjab’s co-owner Ness Wadia, on Wednesday, revealed that the parting between Ravichandran Ashwin and the team was ‘amicably agreed’ upon by both parties. Ex captain of the Punjab franchise in the Indian Premier League, Ashwin will no longer represent them starting from IPL 2020.
      
While Wadia has given a confirmation about Ashwin’s departure, there’s no such official word on the player’s possible trade-off to Delhi Capitals. Earlier, Wadia had attested that there was no way that would think of letting Ashwin go. However, the co-owner has now confirmed that discussions over Ashwin’s move have resumed.
“Ashwin and we have decided amicably that we will part ways. There are a few options and we are talking to all of them,” Wadia said, as quoted by Sportstar.
What brought about the possible trade-off is a ‘collective decision’ made mutually to reach to a conclusion that’s ‘best for everyone’.
“That’s an internal discussion. There was a collective decision and we amicably concluded that it will be best to part ways. That’s the most important thing. There is no animosity. At the end of the day, we decided as a franchise, and he decided as a player. We put our minds together and we decided what’s best for everyone,” the Kings XI co-owner said.
“Nothing has been finalised yet. We are talking to a lot of franchises and let’s see how things go,” he further added talking about the transfer.
On being asked whether there has been any thoughts on who the new captain will be, whether KL Rahul or not, Wadia attested that nothing had been finalised yet. “Nothing has been decided on the captain. It is all work in progress."
