
# The Importance Of Consumer Trust And Advocacy For Startup Success 

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rafael Schwarz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbescommunicationscouncil/2019/11/01/the-importance-of-consumer-trust-and-advocacy-for-startup-success/)

Can companies be successful with only one product? In times of ubiquitous “Amazonization,” this seems difficult to imagine. But product excellence, consumer trust, collaboration and advocacy play a greater role than ever in digital markets.I recently attended an event where I learned about a German startup that is collaborating with fashion bloggers and influencers to create the best product and perfect direct-to-consumer (DTC) marketing strategy. Working in the influencer marketing industry, we often see companies collaborate with influencers to advertise established brands, but this new avenue offers an opportunity for brands to leverage the energy of creators much earlier in the marketing process and cocreate a product with their most influential consumers and future advocates. Cocreating a product can enhance brand trust and boost advocacy — allowing even single-item brands to succeed.

        Do One Thing Well
      
If corporate success could be reduced to a simple formula, it would probably be just that — uncompromising product focus. No distractions. No frills. If you ask me, this is probably even more important for startups than established corporations.
Paul Graham, cofounder of the seed accelerator Y Combinator has stated, “The most important thing for startups to do is to focus.” The reason for this is obvious: Brilliance and expertise in a special field lead to the highest credibility. Which is the precursor to the hardest currency in any customer relationship: trust.
“Earn trust. Then you can worry about the rest,” is one of the central mantras of serial entrepreneur and author Seth Godin. Why? Happy customers who trust your brand are most likely to become true fans and ambassadors, generating sustainable growth.

        Cocreating A New Brand With The Help Of Consumers And Influencers
      
Smart entrepreneurs and marketers are bringing these two wisdoms together and are involving consumers and/or influencers early on in their product development and marketing process. I have seen this cocreation or crowd-development approach work across industries in product categories, for business-to-consumer (B2C) as well as business-to-business (B2B) companies, and for established corporate giants as well as entrepreneurial startups.
Success is based on a few factors:
• Knowing upfront what you want to get out of the collaboration. Is it only an “approval” of your existing idea or prototype, or do you want to start together from zero?
• Understanding which elements of your brand or product you (or your management) are willing to change.
• Identifying who you want to collaborate with (existing customers, new consumers, business partners, influencers).
• Determining which internal resources and budgets are available for this project and what the time frame is.

        Maximizing Social Influence Through Trust And Collaboration
      
Collaborating with consumers or influencers in the development stage of a brand or product not only provides valuable insights and feedback for research and development (R&D), but it also increases the chances of in-market success in two ways:
1. Companies can tailor their brands, products or packaging according to the needs of their actual consumers — especially to those innovators mostly responsible for initial sales, since these consumers are also often the ones most interested in cocreation.
2. By opening up their labs and involving consumers and influencers in the developmnent of their products, brands can build engagement and advocacy. Once consumers realize that their opinions and expertise matter and companies are willing to listen to them, it creates a trusted relationship that can lead to advocacy and word-of-mouth marketing.

        Designing A Financially Sustainable DTC Business Model
      
Collaborating with consumers and influencers before a launch is especially important for DTC startups and cash-strapped entrepreneurs without notable advertising budgets. According to Marketing Week, recent research revealed that “DTC shoppers are more likely than the general population to influence the buying choices of others. This is because they tend to share information about their purchases and are especially likely to advise friends on what to buy.” Hence, engaging with your consumers at scale before launch can be a powerful factor in designing products that meet or exceed expectations and generate social buzz and awareness.
The secret formula behind this case is simple: Listen to your customers. Help them solve their issues, and build brand trust and advocacy into your marketing strategy.
