
# Teenager stabbed 'during fight at vigil' for friend who died in police chase

Published at: **2019-11-05T13:02:41+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, Charlotte Dobson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teenager-stabbed-during-fight-vigil-20815535)

A teenager has been stabbed following a fight at a vigil to mourn the death of a close friend .
An 18-year-old was attacked as pals paid their respects to a 17-year-old who died after the car he was in smashed into a building during a police chase.
According to the ManchesterEveningNews , police were called to reports of a brawl in the south of the city on Monday.
The teenager was stabbed in the shoulder before being taken to hospital. Police said he is in a stable condition.
They say the fight broke out at a vigil in memory of Deon Simpson, who died in a police chase.
The teenager stabbed on Monday night is believed to have been one of Deon's friends - and a pal of the other person injured in the horror smash on Sunday.
 
The two young men inside the vehicle were taken to hospital with life-threatening injuries.
Deon, understood to have lived in Gorton having grown up in Moss Side, later died .
The other person remains in hospital. A referral has been made to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) and an investigation into the collision has been launched.
Deon's friends flooded Facebook with tributes on Monday .
Some arranged to meet at the scene of the tragedy to pay their respects. Flowers were laid there throughout the day.
 
At around 7pm, people reported on social media that someone had been knifed.
One person wrote: "Poor lad has gone to pay his respects and then been stabbed."
Several other sources told the M.E.N. the attack happened during the vigil.
A friend of the teenager said he was recovering well.
Greater Manchester Police have not confirmed the stabbing and Sunday night's crash are linked.
A statement from the force read: "Shortly after 6.50pm on Monday 4 November 2019, police were called to reports of people fighting on Burnage Lane in Burnage.
"Officers attended and an 18-year-old man was taken to hospital with a stab wound to his shoulder. He remains in a stable condition.
"No arrests have been made and enquiries are ongoing. "Police patrols remain in the area."
