
# The Top Five Graduate Schools For This Year’s Forbes 400

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Elana Lyn Gross**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/elanagross/2019/11/02/the-top-five-graduate-schools-for-this-years-forbes-400/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Going to graduate school could boost your earnings—to the tune of billions. Despite a few famous dropouts like Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg, nearly 80% of the billionaires on this year’s Forbes 400 list have a college diploma. And 40% of them even stuck around for graduate degrees.These 151 super-studious billionaires went to both public schools—like UC Berkeley, Oregon State University and Western Michigan University—and private ones—like Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Vanderbilt University and the University of Chicago. Most studied either business (78 degrees) or law (39 degrees). A total of 20—including cable pioneer John Malone and Intel cofounder Gordon Moore—got doctorates, in everything from electrical engineering to social policy and even optometry. Two are medical doctors. Hospital Corp. of America founder Thomas Frist Jr. got an M.D. from Washington University in St. Louis, while Patrick Soon-Shiong, who invented the cancer drug Abraxane, got an M.S. from the University of British Columbia in Canada and an M.D. from the University of Witwatersrand in South Africa.
No one has more degrees than H. Fisk Johnson. The great-great grandson of the founder of SC Johnson, and the company’s current CEO, Johnson has a master’s in physics, a master’s in engineering, an M.B.A. and a Ph.D. in physics, all from Cornell University.
54% of the Forbes 400 members with graduate degrees went to just a handful of schools. Here are the five grad schools that the most Forbes 400 members attended.

        Harvard University: 31 Graduates
      
Harvard tops the list, largely thanks to Harvard Business School. No single degree appears on more Forbes 400 members’ resumes than the Harvard M.B.A. Former New York City mayor and Bloomberg LP cofounder Michael Bloomberg got one. So did 25 of his peers, including hedge fund titan Ray Dalio, New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft and three of the 56 women on this year’s list. Fidelity Investments CEO Abigail Johnson, SHI International founder and CEO Thai Lee and former eBay and Hewlett-Packard CEO Meg Whitman all have a Harvard M.B.A.
Meanwhile, media mogul Sumner Redstone went to Harvard Law School, as did real estate icon Mortimer Zuckerman and investors David Bonderman and Paul Singer. Jack Dangermond received a master’s degree in landscape architecture from Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1969, the same year he and his wife Laura founded Esri, an industry leader in Geographic Information System software used for creating digital maps.

        Stanford University: 25 Graduates
      
The business school reigns supreme at Stanford too. Of the 25 people who have a graduate degree from the California university, 15 got an M.B.A. That includes Nike founder Phil Knight, brokerage pioneer Charles Schwab and Laurene Powell Jobs, who inherited billions of dollars of stock in Apple and Disney from her late husband, Apple cofounder Steve Jobs. 
Three members of The Forbes 400 got joint J.D. and M.B.A. degrees from Stanford’s business and law schools, former Bechtel Group CEO Riley Bechtel, plus investors Penny Pritzker and Orlando Bravo. Early Microsoft employee Charles Simonyi got a Ph.D. in computer science from the school.
Two cofounder duos met as grad students at Stanford. Sergey Brin and Larry Page started the project that would become Google while studying at the Stanford School of Engineering. They ran their prototype “Backrub” on computers in their dorm rooms and both graduated with master’s degrees in computer science before incorporating Google in 1998. Jerry Yang and David Filo also met at the school, where they earned master’s degrees in electrical engineering but dropped out of the Ph.D. program to start Yahoo in 1994.

        Columbia University: 12 Graduates
      
Long before Warren Buffett became one of the world’s most successful investors, he was a grad student at Columbia Business School, studying economics under value investing legends Benjamin Graham and David Dodd. Buffett got an M.S. in economics from Columbia in 1951 and worked for Graham’s firm before striking out on his own after Graham retired.
Most of his fellow Columbia alumni received M.B.A.s from Columbia Business School, including hedge fund titan Leon Cooperman, real estate giant Jerry Speyer and private equity moguls Henry Kravis and Robert F. Smith. Earlier this year, Smith shocked the graduating class at Morehouse College when he pledged to pay off their student loans. Smith’s own career path was shaped by his Columbia Business School graduation speaker, John Utendahl, who encouraged him to work on Wall Street, helped him get a job and became his mentor.
Walmart heir Rob Walton and real estate developer Richard LeFrak got J.D.s from Columbia Law School. Investor Len Blavatnik got an M.S. in computer science from the university’s engineering school in 1981, where venture capitalist Douglas Leone got an M.S. in industrial engineering.

        University of Pennsylvania: 8 Graduates
      
The eight members of The Forbes 400 who went to grad school at Penn all attended the university’s famed business school, Wharton. That includes major donor Ronald Perelman, CEO of holding company MacAndrews & Forbes and chairman of Revlon. Penn’s Perelman Quadrangle, the historic heart of its campus, is named in recognition of one of Perelman’s gifts to the university.
His fellow Wharton grads are junk bond kingpin and convicted felon turned philanthropist Michael Milken, Mars candy heiress Victoria Mars, oil heir Lee Bass, real estate tycoon Mortimer Zuckerman (who also received his L.L.M from Harvard), investors Marc Rowan and Michael Moritz and airline executive Rakesh Gangwal, who was CEO of US Airways Group before launching IndiGo, India’s largest airline, in 2006. 

        Northwestern: 5 Graduates
      
Four of the five Northwestern graduates on The Forbes 400 received a J.D. from the university’s law school, including Hyatt Hotel heirs Daniel Pritzker and J.B. Pritzker. In 2015, the school was renamed Northwestern Pritzker School of Law after J.B.—who is now governor of Illinois—and his wife M.K. made a $100 million gift, at the time believed to be the largest single donation to any law school. Investor Mark Walter also got a J.D. from Northwestern, as did real estate developer Neil Bluhm. Bluhm has been a longtime supporter of the university and, through his foundation, gave $25 million to the Northwestern Medicine Bluhm Cardiovascular Institute last November.
