
# Best printers 2019

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:39:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Martin**

Original: [Tech Advisor](https://www.techadvisor.co.uk/test-centre/printing/best-printers-3217306/)

Take a look at our pick of the 10 best printers you can buy right now, complete with our verdict on each printer, where you can buy them, live prices and links to our full reviews should you wish to find out more.
Whatever your needs, buying a new printer can be a confusing process. Not only do you have to worry about the upfront cost and whether it can print a good photo, you've also got to consider print speeds, ongoing costs and a host of potential additional features.
It's worth bearing in mind that the printer market moves slowly, and the latest printers aren't always the best. Printer tech hasn't evolved much so reviews might not be from this year but they stay on sale for a long time unlike categories like phones or laptops. Each and every printer here is available to buy in the UK today.
Now you can check out our pick of the top 10 printers below, all tried and tested by us.

        Want more help deciding which is best for you? Read our buying advice for the Best Printers
      
If you need an all-rounder that's compact and offers good quality without breaking the bank then the Epson Expression Photo XP-8600 is a great choice.
It might not be the fastest or cheapest printer around but the XP-8600 can do a lot for the price including regular docucment printing and high quality photos with six inks - plus the ability to do CDs and DVDs if you need. And you don't have to keep changing the paper due to two trays.
The design includes a handy touchscreen and the printer is also a copier and scanner. 
Read our Epson Expression Photo XP-8600 review.
The HP Tango is an excellent printer, but only for a particular type of customer. If you want to print a lot of documents and photos quickly and cheaply then it's not the one for you. Nor is it any good if you want a screen and other features like a card reader and built-in scanner.
This stylish smart printer is designed to be on show and satisfy those wanting to print via a smartphone or with smart assistants like Alexa. The Instagram generation wanting to print selfies and other social media posts. And for that, it's the ideal candidate. 
Read our HP Tango review.
If you're looking for a cheap printer to handle day-to-day tasks then the TS3350 MkII (or TS3320 in the US) is an excellent choice. 
This is not only affordable but offers great quality printing for a range of jobs, including colour images. This is even a copier and scanner too so you're getting a lot for your money.
It's quite slow so isn't a workhorse and you'll want to get XL cartridges to keep running costs down. For printing the occasional letter, boarding pass or family photo withouth breaking the bank it's perfect.
Read our Canon Pixma TS3350 MkII review.
The high up-front cost of the ET-3750 might deter many people, and it won’t be suitable for home users with only modest printing needs. But, if you’re working from home or in a small office and you need to produce colour and text documents on a daily basis, then the terrifically low running costs of the ET-3750 will save you a lot of money in the long run.
Read our Epson EcoTank ET-3750 review.
The DCP-J572DW from Brother is a great printer but only for some users. It's compact and affordable for starters making it particularly good for home use.
We're very impressed with the quality the printer can achieve and there are a wide range of printing features and connectivity. You could even use it for high-quality business documents if needed.
However, it's only really suitable for occasional use due to its slow print speed and above average refill prices.
Read our Brother DCP-J572DW review.
If you don't need colour and you want a compact printer that'll also scan and copy documents, the HP M28w is ideal. It doesn't have the cheapest running costs, but for a home office or an executive's desk, it offers great performance and ease of use.
Buy the LaserJet Pro M28W from HP UK.
Buy the LaserJet Pro M28W from Walmart.
Read our HP LaserJet Pro M28w review.
The relatively high cost of printing simple text documents is disappointing, but if you’re working from home and need to produce a lot of colour documents, such as presentations and brochures, then the Pixma TR8550 does offer genuinely competitive running costs – as long as you use the larger XL/XXL cartridges. It’s versatile too, and will provide a reliable workhorse printer for anyone that needs to set up a small office at home.
Read our Canon Pixma TR8550 review.
As a multi-function printer, there's a lot to like: good speed, good features and good print quality. But, ink can get expensive so it's only really a good choice if you need to print occasionally rather than all the time.
Read our Epson Expression Home XP-5105 review.
The TS6250 is a well-balanced printer which offers an affordable price initially and then cheap running costs if you stick to the XL cartridges.
It's still more expensive than a traditional four-colour printer, but the additional pigment-based black ink offers a higher quality result no matter what you're printing.
Those looking to just print text documents then there's no need to get this model. This is better for those wanting to also print photos and other more complex documents.
Read our Canon Pixma TS6250 review.
The DCP-J774DW is a neatly designed little printer that's well suited to use at home – even if it is a bit noisier than we might have liked.
But it’s the cost of ink cartridges that you’ll need to think about. To be fair, the relatively low up-front cost of the four-cartridge value packs may appeal to home users who know that they’re not going to be doing too much printing on a regular daily basis.
However, those running costs mean that the DCP-J774DW won’t be ideal for home workers or small offices that need to print documents every day of the week.
Read our Brother DCP-J774DW review.
There's no single printer that will suit everyone, so while the list below is ordered it's best not to worry too much about the number beside it. We've mixed together home and business printers, multifunction, colour and mono. They're all good.
Printers come in two main forms: inkjet or laser, with colour and mono flavours of each. Lasers tend to be more expensive to buy, but provide better quality output, particularly where lots of text is involved. And they can be faster. Notice we said 'tend' - lasers aren't always best.
As a basic rule, if you need to print only text, and a lot of it, a mono laser printer will offer the crispest text output and the best combination of fast page-per-minute output and low ink costs. If you need to print photos, choose an inkjet printer. A dedicated photo printer with individual cartridges for each colour will suit those who print only photos.
You can also read our more in-depth comparison of the pros and cons of each type of printer.
When buying a printer, remember that the price you pay in the store is just the beginning. Be sure to consider the cost of replenishing toner and other consumables over the lifetime of the printer. This is particularly important if you print a lot. A set of toner cartridges can easily approach the cost of a colour laser printer.
Most manufacturers quote a 'page yield' estimate for their ink cartridges, which is the typical number of pages you can expect to print before the cartridge runs out of ink. You can use the page yield to calculate the average cost per page and you'd be surprised to find how much this can vary from one printer to another.
Of course, if output quality matters more to you than cost, scoot over to the other end of the cost spectrum where there are more specialised printers that use five or even six inks for printing photographs. Those additional inks can produce excellent results for your photo prints, but they add to the cost, sometimes pushing the cost for photos up to 10p or more per page.
Most modern printers are multifunction 'all-in-one' devices that include a scanner too. This allows you to scan photos and other documents and convert them into digital files that you can store on your computer or share with friends or colleagues. You can also print copies of your scanned documents, allowing the printer to stand in for a photocopier too.
Some models even include a fax machine. If you require a scanner and a photocopier as well as a printer, you'll save money by buying in all-in-one - but if a standalone printer suits your needs, you may be able to spend less.
Speeds quoted by manufacturers are almost never matched by real-world performance. If you often need to print in a hurry, look for independent reviews when choosing your printer.
Other useful features to look out for include additional USB ports and memory card slots that will allow you to print photos direct from a camera.
High-capacity paper trays capable of holding hundreds of sheets of paper, or an automatic document feeder that can handle scanning and copying work while you go and do something more important, may be worth looking out for.
Double-sided printing is handy for halving your paper usage.
It's also worth thinking about the bundled software that comes with your printer. Some printers include software that provides basic editing features, such as red-eye removal or adjusting the colour balance – some even allow you to perform simple editing tasks using controls on the printer itself.
Click here for the best Samsung deals and Samsung voucher codes.
