
# 'Strictly's First Individual Same-Sex Dance Was A Liberating Moment For This Pro Dancer

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:29:01+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Bustle](https://www.bustle.com/p/strictlys-first-individual-same-sex-dance-was-a-liberating-moment-for-this-pro-dancer-19291878)

Sunday night's Strictly Come Dancing episode went viral, and thankfully did so for all the right reasons. For the first time in the series' history, an individual same-sex dance took place. Professionals Johannes Radebe and Graziano Di Prima were the chosen pair, spinning and smiling their way across the floor while Emeli Sande belted her heart out.
For 32-year-old Radebe, the moment was more special than some perhaps realised. "I've never felt so liberated," he told Hello! magazine. "For the first time in my life, I feel accepted for who I am. That says so much about the people of this country.
Radebe continued: "To be able to dance with a friend I respect and adore is joyous. There's bromance galore between us, but there were no male and female roles, just free movement. It was beautiful, classy, and elegant."
In a recent interview with The Sun, the dancer opened up about being bullied in his native South Africa and just how importance Strictly has been. “I grew up in a country where homosexuality was frowned upon," he told the paper. “The society around me pointed to me and said, ‘There’s something wrong with you.’ But Strictly has helped me be a better person and accepting of myself."
