
# Anthony Daniels Is Open To Someone New Playing C-3PO

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:27:15+00:00**

Author: **Robert Workman**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/movies/471063-anthony-daniels-is-open-to-someone-new-playing-c-3po)

Next month, Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker will mark the end of an era. That means saying goodbye to old friends fans grew close to over the years — including C-3PO. However, Anthony Daniels recently spoke to Radio Times about the possibility of someone new taking over the role, no matter what happens. He believes his character shouldn’t simply fade away.
“There are people wandering around Disney theme parks, dressed in better suits than mine,” explained Daniels. “They seem to move a lot more easily. And quite right: he is too good a character, too big of a character, to die with me. And Disney paid a lot of money for him! You know what I mean? They’ve got to get their money back somehow.”
C-3PO’s fate hasn’t been decided yet, but the latest trailer for Rise of Skywalker indicates he’s ready to accept it. When asked what he’s doing, he replies, “Taking one last look, sir…at my friends.” 
Disney hasn’t really made any future plans with Star Wars outside of the latest movie. Game of Thrones’ David Benioff and D.B. Weiss recently backed out of directing a new Star Wars trilogy.
Whatever happens, Daniels is thankful for this time in the role. Earlier this year on Twitter, he expressed gratitude in working with him one last time. 
“Today was 3PO’s last on Episode IX,” wrote Daniels. “He’s sad – so am I. But we’re so proud to have worked with such a lovely, talented cast & crew lead by J.J. & Kathy. I’ll miss everyone but I’m glad to know that we’ve been making something exceptional together, to share with the waiting world.”
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker opens in theaters on December 20.
Do you think C-3PO should retire after this film, or continue in new stories? Let us know in the comments below!

        Recommended Reading: 
        
          I Am C-3PO: The Inside Story
        
      
