
# Scots mum's genius money-saving hack passes 45p Aldi ketchup off as Heinz favourite

Published at: **2019-11-04T19:34:10+00:00**

Author: **Tim McNulty**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/scots-mums-genius-money-saving-20811542)

A canny mum has discovered a money saving hack after sneaking cheaper brand condiments past her unsuspecting family.
Michele Black, from East Kilbride decided to switch Heinz Tomato Ketchup for the cheaper Aldi version in a bid to pay less for sauces.
Aldi's Bramwells offering costs only 45p for 560g, whilst Heinz's 650g option costs around £2. 
After filling an empty Heinz bottle with the Aldi sauce, Michele served it up at Sunday family dinner and claims no one noticed the difference.
She shared the ploy with the Aldi Shoppers UK Facebook group and found other prudent people have adopted the same trick to cut down on household bills.
The DailyMail reported one user replied they did not stop at just sauces but had extended to other household items, they wrote: 'I do it with everything, cereals, sauces, shampoo, shower gels.
While another added: "I've done this for years. No comments ever."
"Tonight before dinner I filled an empty Heinz bottle with Aldi sauce,' said Michele.
"The husband and son both used it and as they take on EVERYTHING, near enough,' Michele wrote in a post which gathered more than 500 likes. 
"Not one has mentioned it tasting different, and although I don't take it unless on sausages, neither can I.
she added: "Win win for me, I think."
