
# IDC releases its first sale performance report for 5G phones in China -

Published at: **2019-11-07T16:59:57+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/07/idc-releases-its-first-sale-performance-report-for-5g-phones-in-china/)

Rate this post
Earlier this year, 5G was officially launched in China. However, it was only on November 1st that the three major Chinese carriers announce their standard 5G packages. Nevertheless, a couple of 5G smartphones were already in the Chinese market. IDC now has its first tracking report for 5G smartphones in China. As of September this year, the total shipment of 5G mobile phones is about 485,000.
The IDC report shows that Vivo ranks first with a 54.3% market share. Samsung is far behind in second with a 29.0% share while Huawei is third with a 9.5% share. Xiaomi and ZTE rank fourth and fifth with 4.6% and 1.5% respectively. China Mobile is sixth with 1.1%. The likes of Vivo, Xiaomi, ZTE ad China Mobile all have 5G devices below $650. In addition, Huawei and Samsung’s 5G smartphones are above $700.
Looking at this report, it appears that China’s 5G smartphone already has a good start. Of course, with the development of the 5G industry, 5G smartphone terminals also need to meet higher demands. The cooperation between 5G terminal manufacturers and the chip industry chain will inevitably continue and be tight, including the iteration of chip solutions.
For now, we can foresee that we will see more 5G smartphones coming on the market in 2020. When consumers have more choices of 5G smartphone terminals, they can push the 5G smartphone market to grow. Definitely, with more 5G devices, the average price will reduce.

        Via
      
