
# Principal on leave after teacher fired for allegedly sending student nude photos

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:43:54+00:00**

Author: **EndPlay**

Original: [WFXT](https://www.boston25news.com/news/principal-on-leave-after-teacher-fired-for-allegedly-sending-student-nude-photos/1006236113?utm_source=homestream&utm_medium=site_navigation&utm_campaign=homestream_click)

LANCASTER, Mass. - The principal at Nashoba High School has been placed on leave about a week after a teacher was fired for allegations involving inappropriate photos with a minor. 
Last week, 42-year-old Dorothy Bancroft Veracka was arraigned in Clinton District Court on charges of soliciting nude photos of a child, sending obscene matter to a minor and possession of child pornography.
Veracka is accused of sending the student nude photos of herself as well as soliciting lewd pictures of the now-16-year-old Lancaster boy. Police allege the exchange happened between Sept. 2018 and March 2019, with Veracka "actively soliciting nude photos to be sent to her from him."
On Thursday, the superintendent of the Nashoba Regional School District told Boston 25 News that principal Paul Di Domenico has been placed on administrative leave. 

        >> Previous: Nashoba High School teacher accused of exchanging nude photos with student
      
The criminal complaint filed against Veracka shows the victim presented evidence of the exchange of photos and messages between the two to police. The victim showed police text conversations between him and Veracka via Snapchat, which he had saved.
Documents also show that Veracka admitted, during an interview, that she received the messages.
Following her arraignment, Veracka was released on personal recognizance under the condition she has contact with anyone under the age of 16 and stays away from Nashoba High School, where she teaches. Veracka was placed on administrative leave in Sept. pending the investigation, according to the superintendent.
She is due back in court Nov. 26.
Veracka's attorney says she looks forward to being "thoroughly vindicated" of the charges.
