
# The Best-Selling Lenovo Chromebook C330 Is Now $247

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:24:56+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/buy-lenovo-chromebook-c330-deal-sale-black-friday-price.html)

Amazon has discounted the Lenovo Chromebook C300, dropping it down to just $246.99. That's down from its regular price of $299.99. This is also lower than it was during Black Friday last year. Making this a really great time to pick up the C330.
The Lenovo C330 is a really great Chromebook for its price. It sports an 11.6-inch 768×1366 resolution display, powered by the MediaTek MT8173C processor, with 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage inside.
It's a pretty small Chromebook, like most Chromebooks. But it is plenty powerful and thanks to it running an ARM chipset, it's going to offer even better battery life. We're looking at, at least 14 hours on a single charge. Which is pretty impressive, to say the least.
Advertisement
The Lenovo C330 Chromebook also boots up very quickly, so you'll never have to wait too long for it to boot up from being completely off. In fact, as soon as you open the lid, it'll start to boot up.
With Chromebooks, there are some limitations. Remember that this is running essentially just a Chrome browser. This is not a full-fledged operating system like macOS or Windows. While there are some Android apps available, thanks to Google Play being supported on Chromebooks now, it's still pretty limited. For instance, most Adobe apps are not available on Chromebooks. Since the Android version of their apps are nowhere near what the desktop version would be.
It's important to keep all of that in mind before making this purchase. As many think of Chromebooks as a competitor to Windows, and everything they can do on their Windows laptop, they can do on a Chromebook. Which is not the case, unfortunately.
Advertisement
You can pick up the Lenovo Chromebook C330 from Amazon by clicking here. But you'd better hurry, as this price won't be around for long.

        Lenovo Chromebook C330 - Amazon - $246
      
