
# Gender pay gap closed as parity confirmed in new Matildas deal

Published at: **2019-11-05T23:28:27+00:00**

Author: **Australian Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/06/gender-pay-gap-closed-as-parity-confirmed-in-new-matildas-deal)

Football Federation Australia and Professional Footballers Australia have detailed a landmark collective bargaining agreement that closes the pay gap between Australia’s national teams, the Socceroos and Matildas.
The new four-year CBA ensures the Socceroos and Matildas receive a 24% share of an agreed aggregate of national team generated revenues in 2019-20, rising by 1% each year.
The new agreement reflects football’s determination to address issues of gender equality in all facets of the game.
Significantly for the Matildas, a new three-tiered centralised contract system will see Australia’s premier women footballers provided with increased annual salary from around $66,000 to $100,000 – the same amount as the top Socceroos.
The Matildas will also receive the same access to off-field benefits such as business-class flights, training facilities and specialist performance support staff as the Socceroos are afforded.
The allocation of any prospective World Cup prize money to players has also been increased. Under the new CBA, players are entitled to 40% prize money on qualifying for a Fifa World Cup, representing an increase from 30%.
That share of prize money increases to 50% if they progress to the knockout stage of the competition.
FFA’s parental leave policy will be also be reviewed and upgraded to provide an even higher level of support for Matildas during pregnancy and when returning to national team duty.
“This is a unique deal in world football and we believe sets the model for where all federations and players – male and female – can take the game to unlock the incredible social and commercial opportunity that, in particular, women’s football presents,” PFA chief executive John Didulica said.
“The deal is based on the principles of partnership, equality and investment. The players of today are investing in the future of Australian football because they believe in the game and they believe in each other.”
Didulica added the agreement is “blind to gender”.
FFA boss David Gallop said it was important to acknowledge the Socceroos, led by captain Mark Milligan, for choosing to help drive the new CBA changes and supporting the women.
Milligan felt compelled to back the pay parity push after being blown away by the Matildas while taking his three children to this year’s women’s World Cup in France.
“It’s been clear for everybody to see how much it [women’s football] has grown over the last few years, and especially how well our Matildas have been doing,” he said. “I’d only really heard and read about the successes they were having, and to be able to go across and witness it first-hand was extraordinary.
“The timing for me probably couldn’t have been better, because it really drove home how important it was during these negotiations that they got what they deserved. Going forward, what a value they are to the Australian footballing community.”
Former Matilda and FFA head of game development, Sarah Walsh hailed the advancement as a major win for the game in Australia, believing it could help it become the country’s No 1 sport.
“FFA, the PFA and all the players are proud to be leading the way in delivering real gender equality within the game we love,” Walsh said. “This agreement is the product of generations of Matildas and their supporters advocating for real change. This moment belongs to all of them as well.”
Current Matilda Elise Kellond-Knight said: “This new deal is enormous. As a female footballer, it’s what we’ve always dreamed of. We’ve always wanted to be treated equal.
“We want to be able to step out on to that pitch with equal opportunity and with equal facilities that men have been exposed to. So as a player, the new CBA shows signs of respect. Now we’re going to be completely included. Having these facilities that the men have is going to set us up for success.”
