
# After GOP Warnings, Trump Skips Hardliners And Makes Nielsen Deputy Acting DHS Leader

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:52:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Talking Points Memo](https://talkingpointsmemo.com/news/after-gop-warnings-trump-skips-hardliners-and-makes-nielsen-deputy-acting-dhs-leader)

Rather than go with his reported favorites for the job, the President has chosen Kirstjen Nielsen’s former chief of staff to fill in as the acting secretary of the Department Homeland Security.
Trump reportedly wanted to put a hardliner in the job — specifically, acting U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Ken Cuccinelli — but several Republican senators warned him against the move.
Instead, Trump told reporters Friday that Chad Wolf would lead the department in an “acting” capacity. A former lobbyist, Wolf helped Nielsen implement the administration’s family separation policy and was one of the first officials to sketch out plans for the systematic separations, as documents obtained by NBC News show.
The Trump administration is full of so-called “acting” leaders, or those who aren’t confirmed by the Senate and are supposed to be temporary substitutes. Trump has said he prefers acting officials to Senate-confirmed ones because “it gives me more flexibility.”
Prior to Trump’s announcement Friday, Wolf was the acting undersecretary for policy at DHS. He’s taking over for another acting DHS secretary, Kevin McAleenan. Nielsen, the last Senate-confirmed DHS secretary, left the administration in April.
In a statement Saturday, McAleenan said of Wolf: “Chad understands what it takes to run a vast enterprise such as the Department.”
Trump’s other reported favorite for the DHS job, Mark Morgan, is currently the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection. Unnamed White House officials told Politico that Morgan could be nominated for to lead DHS as the permanent, Senate-confirmed secretary.
Trump announced McAleenan’s departure three weeks ago and said he would name a successor within a week, but that deadline came and went.
