
# Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro is the new king of photography at DxOmark

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:27:00+00:00**

Author: **Abdullah**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/xiaomi-mi-cc9-pro-is-the-new-king-of-photography-at-dxomark/)

Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro is the new king of photography at DxOmark4.7 (93.33%) 3 votes
The Xiaomi Mi CC9 Pro breaks new ground in Xiaomi‘s history. The smartphone that will be called Mi Note 10 in global markets has already passed DxOmark’s tests and achieved a fantastic score of 121 points.
The five-camera smartphone that includes the 108MP sensor has achieved a score that placed it at the top of this ranking, with the same points as the Huawei Mate 30 Pro.
In terms of photography, the Mi CC9 Pro achieves 130 points (Mate 30 Pro scored 132 points), delivering good results in all situations. According to DxOmark, it preserves the details very well and can greatly avoid noise in the images.
The portraits will be at a good level, and the white balance as well. Night photography offers natural tones, but we are talking about a device that also has flaws. Such as the loss of sharpness towards the edges of images with a high dynamic range.
Its native 2x zoom and 4x optical gives it a score of 109 points in this field. While in the video tests, it reaches 102 points, which is the highest number so far on the platform.
The actual use is what will really determine this quality. No matter how high the score is, you should wait for the first user reviews. To see if this is really the device that will make you dispense from professional cameras.
