
# US-China Tech Rivalry Plays Out In Scrutiny of TikTok

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Rebecca Fannin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/rebeccafannin/2019/11/02/us-china-tech-rivalry-plays-out-in-scrutiny-of-tiktok/)

Look for the Washington, DC investigation of the popular Chinese video app TikTok to lead to a bigger crackdown on China’s growing influence and power in the tech economy. As Chinese tech startups have increasingly gone global like TikTok and its parent company ByteDance have, this scrutiny is bound to become more widespread and impact other China entities in the U.S. The 15-second music video app that TikTok has created and popularized is a good example of the type of innovation that is arising from China today, no longer copying American brands but inventing its own with apps for a new generation. TikTok beat both Tencent and Facebook to the idea. Facebook has since come out with its own 15-second video app, Lasso, and Google may be next.
Regulators are specifically examining the ByteDance acquisition of social video app Musical.ly in 2017, which wasn’t cleared by DC at the time. That deal combined TikTok’s AI-fed streams and monetization model with Musical.ly’s product innovation and grasp of users’ tastes in the West. After ByteDance folded the four-year-old Musical.ly into TikTok and rebranded it into a single application under the TikTok name, the app immediately gained 30 million users within three months. ByteDance also got inroads into Hollywood with Musical.ly and its deals with Viacom and NBC Universal for short-form video shows.
ByteDance has made other recent deals in the U.S. that could get fall under scrutiny. The same year it bought Musical.ly, the Beijing company snapped up Los Angeles-based Flipagram, a video and photo creation app set to music clips. ByteDance tried to buy news aggregator Reddit but lost that deal to a Chinese competitor, Tencent, in early 2018.
Venture capital firms that have invested in ByteDance, the world’s leading unicorn with a valuation of $75 billion, include a host of international firms including initial investor SIG Asia followed by Sequoia Capital China, Softbank, KKR, General Atlantic, Hillhouse Capital, and CCB International, an investment unit of China Construction Bank.
The ByteDance acquisition of Musical.ly brought in GGV Capital, which was an investor and had a board seat (managing partner Hans Tung) in Musical.ly. If you want to learn more of the background, check out this video of Alex Zhu, co-founder of Musical.ly, being interviewed at a Silicon Dragon forum in Shanghai in 2016.
Over the past few years, Chinese investments into the U.S. tech startups grew dramatically, totaling $51.4 billion from 2010 to 2018, led by mega deals in America’s trophy startups Uber, Lyft, and Magic Leap, which I write about in Tech Titans of China. Not all these deals passed regulatory approval. For instance, Alibaba’s planned acquisition of MoneyGram in 2017 was blocked by DC over security reasons, and Alibaba has since turned more attention to Southeast Asia and Israel investments.
Last year, China direct investment in the U.S. slowed considerably, to $4.8 billion in 2018 from $29 billion in 2017, the lowest level in seven years after a 2016 peak of $46 billion. M&A deals by China’s tech titans honed in on much smaller, highly strategic transactions rather than the mega deals of the tech elite.
Concerns are being raised by U.S. regulators over censorship of content in Chinese mobile apps, and where data is stored. In the case of TikTok, ByteDance has created two versions of the app, one for China and one for the rest of the world. This could be a model for other Chinese companies seeking to go global, but only if DC loosens its review of China-to-U.S. transactions. That’s unlikely, however, considering the escalating tech rivalry between the U.S. and China.
