
# 11 times The Queen wore fur before agreeing to ban it from her wardrobe

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:15:01+00:00**

Author: **Emily Retter, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/emily-retter/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/11-times-queen-wore-fur-20829487)

She may be 93 but the Queen has proved she’s not set in her ways by taking the modern decision to go fur-free.
After decades of real fur coats, Her Maj thrilled animal rights campaigners with the decision to switch to faux-fur in any new outfits, as we reported in yesterday’s Mirror.
Her official dresser Angela Kelly revealed the move in her memoir, The Other Side of the Coin: The Queen, the Dresser and the Wardrobe, and said mink trim had been removed from a favourite coat.
Buckingham Palace confirmed the news, though the monarch may still wear old fur on existing outfits including ceremonial robes.
Here, we look back at Liz’s fur fashions.
The Queen won’t be able to trim the fur from historic regal robes as she has done with her personal coat.
Here, she stands with her six maids of honour and Mistress of the Robes at her coronation at Westminster Abbey in London on June 2, 1953.
The gown is embellished with a crimson velvet mantle edged with ermine. Not surprisingly, she needed a string of maids to help her take the strain.
The Queen and Prince Philip were on their travels with 100 dresses in tow plus this snowy white stole, a lasting favourite.
Here, the stole gets a glamorous outing in Australia, as Elizabeth leaves a banquet with her young husband.
In 1962, Her Majesty rang the changes and wore a striking leopard-print coat to a Sandown Park race meeting.
Her Maj wore this glossy brown fur number for the official opening of the Victoria Line.
It is possibly the most expensive coat ever to grace the Underground’s seats.
Outlandish anywhere else – but this traditional Maori cloak was the perfect look for her Jubilee Tour of New Zealand in 1977.
You wouldn’t want to be standing behind Her Maj on this occasion, wearing a bushy fur hat during her tour of Canada.
Choosing a jauntier, shorter fur jacket than usual, the Queen attends a dinner in Grosvenor Square with the Duke of Edinburgh.
The Queen likes to keep warm for the State Opening of Parliament at the Palace of Westminster and has often teamed this extravagant thick fur with the George IV State Diadem.
The Queen chose an orange coat and matching hat with brown fur trim for the official opening of the Welsh National Assembly building in Cardiff Bay.
Have the fur collar and pom-pom been dyed green or was this an early foray into fake fur?
On Armistice Day in 2006, The Queen and Maori Warrant Officer Wal Wallace attended the official dedication of the New Zealand Memorial at Hyde Park Corner.
Her Maj arrives in good spirits for the traditional Christmas Day church service at Sandringham in 2010 in a Russian-style fur hat and matching cuffs.
