
# Regina's mayor still believes in city proclamations after Yorkton discontinues them

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:00:02+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Ackerman**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/reginas-mayor-still-believes-in-city-proclamations-after-yorkton-discontinues-them)

Regina’s mayor says the city will happily continue signing proclamations, after the City of Yorkton announced it would no longer do so due to community division.
“It’s very important that we celebrate what happens in our city,” said Mayor Michael Fougere.
Fougere said he signs “a ton” of proclamations and — save for one slip up during his first term as mayor when he approved a proclamation for a white supremacy group that was disguised as a celebration of languages, culture and diversity of Europe — there’s never been a problem.
He said proclamations are approved based on criteria set by the Office of the City Clerk and are generally granted as long as they are respectful and not divisive or politically motivated.
“I want no part of that,” said Fougere in an interview last week. “We don’t celebrate division. We celebrate unity.”
When asked if he felt Pride celebrations were a divisive issue in light of recent controversy where Regina Public School board trustees voted down a motion to formally “recognize and support” Pride in schools, saying more discussion and consultation is needed, Fougere was quick to respond.
“I sign proclamations all the time for them,” he said matter-of-factly. “I’ve been the first mayor to raise the flag. First mayor to go in the parade. So, no, this is not an issue for us.”
When asked if he’s approved any quirky proclamations like Saskatchewan UFO Week or Star Trek Fan Week, Fougere said the city does deny some of the more frivolous requests, but that most of them are serious and genuinely seeking to celebrate an important cause.
“We have rejected many, though,” he said. “Some that are controversial, some that the undertones are racist and we said we’re not interested in that at all.”
Groups that do not get approved receive a letter from the city saying they’ve been denied and clearly state the reasons why, based on the criteria laid out by the city clerk’s office.
One of those criteria is that the group must be from within Canada in order for a proclamation to be considered and approved. They must also not promote any commercial business, involve any person or organization that promotes hatred of any person or class of persons or otherwise involves illegal activity or contain any “inflammatory, obscene or libellous statement.”
Proclamations do not go through Regina city council for approval like they do in Yorkton, said Fougere.
Yorkton Mayor Bob Maloney said their new policy helps ensure council meetings don’t get bogged down by addressing multiple requests and also addressed the fact that while some proclamations made certain groups happy, they almost always made another group angry, according to a CBC article.
Fougere said proclamations that come forward to the city are not a laborious or costly process.
“It’s simply signing a document,” said Fougere, adding it doesn’t cost the city a thing to do that.
The mayor most recently proclaimed Waste Reduction Week, encouraging residents to “reach for reusables” and Hockey Week in Regina as the week-long celebration leading up to last weekend’s Tim Hortons NHL Heritage Classic and WHL prairie Classic games.

        jackerman@postmedia.com
      
