
# Analyst: Ethereum Price Likely to Stagnate Until Bitcoin Gets Moving

Published at: **2019-11-04T23:00:12+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [NewsBTC](https://www.newsbtc.com/2019/11/04/analyst-ethereum-price-likely-to-stagnate-until-bitcoin-gets-moving/)

After facing some downwards pressure yesterday, Ethereum (ETH) has been able to post a decent climb today that has allowed it to further establish its current foothold within the mid-$180 region. This price action has been strikingly similar to that of Bitcoin, and it does appear that the two assets are strongly correlated at the present.
One prominent analyst is now noting that he anticipates Ethereum to continue consolidating until Bitcoin begins moving, but any decisive break above its near-term resistance could allow it to post significantly further gains in the near-term.
At the time of writing, Ethereum is trading up over 2% at its current price of $186.26, which marks a notable surge from its daily lows of $179.9 that were briefly visited yesterday, although the crypto sharply bounced after touching this price level.
Ethereum has been closely tracking Bitcoin’s price action over the past several days, and it appears that this correlation is strengthening as both crypto’s extend their current bout of consolidation.
Nik Patel, a popular cryptocurrency analyst, discussed this in a recent blog post, noting that its price may not move much until Bitcoin incurs a decisive trend in one direction or another.
As for the resistance levels that ETH needs to break above in the near-term in order for it to incur a strong uptrend, Patel notes that it needs to break above its 360-day moving average and the resistance it currently has at $200.
It is highly probable that the coming few days and weeks will prove to be quite illuminating when it comes to where ETH and the entire crypto markets will head next.
