
# Keith Flint's possessions go to auction – in pictures

Published at: **2019-11-06T09:32:24+00:00**

Author: **Joe Giddens/PA**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/music/gallery/2019/nov/06/keith-flint-prodigy-possessions-go-to-auction-in-pictures)


        Personal items from the home of the Prodigy’s late frontman are to be sold on Thursday. Among the collection are music awards, an archive of recordings, artwork, clothing, and jewellery, including his distinctive double cone septum ring. They will be sold by auction at Cheffins in Cambridge on Thursday 7 November at 6pm
      
Photographs of Keith Flint on display at Cheffins auctioneers in Cambridge
Flint’s MTV music awards
Flint’s shoes. More than 170 lots will be offered reflecting his taste in art and fashion and his interests
Some of his jewellery. The sale will feature much of Flint’s personal clothing and jewellery, including body jewellery. It will include a distinctive double cone septum piercing that he was regularly seen wearing on and off stage
Flint’s furniture. The furniture and artworks from his home are a mixture of traditional craftmanship and contemporary, urban style
Flint’s furniture and items of clothing. His wardrobe demonstrates his love of Japanese clothing brand Bathing Ape, with a number of hoodies, T-shirts, shirts and more, many in its signature camouflage designs
Photographs of Flint. His art collection includes a portrait by artist Kirk Andrews of him surrounded by dedications, which was commissioned by fans and presented to him on his 47th birthday at his pub, the Leather Bottle in Pleshey, Essex
Flint’s gold and platinum selling albums alongside a stuffed hare
Flint’s custom-made oak and steel bed. Perhaps the most striking piece is this bed, which the musician had a hand in designing. The oak plank and steel construction is supported at each corner by entwined thorn sculptures and is accessed via steps supported on the back of a crouching winged mythical beast
The distinctive double cone septum jewellery
Flint’s gold and platinum albums
Flint’s jeans
Flint’s car registration plates reflect his interest in motorsports. Also included are images of Barry Sheen and a Le Mans Porsche. His keen interest in motor racing extended to his ownership of a motorcycle team, Team Traction Control, which competed in the British Supersport Championship as part of the British Superbike Championship. In 2015 Team Traction Control machines also won two Isle of Man TT races
Flint’s furniture and pieces of clothing
Flint’s mixing decks and more clothing. The sale will include some of his motorcycle leathers and helmets
