
# No10 looks set to block Russian interference report until after general election

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:39:45+00:00**

Author: **Pippa Crerar, Dan Bloom, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/pippa-crerar/, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/no10-looks-set-block-russian-20808720)

Downing Street looks set to block a report on alleged Russian interference in UK elections until after the December general election .
Dominic Grieve, chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament, sent the report to Boris Johnson on October 17 and urged the PM not to "sit on it".
If it is not published before Parliament is dissolved tomorrow night, there won't be another chance before the Commons returns in December.
But today, government insiders stressed such reports usually took about six weeks to be cleared for publication. It is understood the report is not yet cleared by the Cabinet Office.
A Downing Street spokesman today refused to say when the report will be published, saying: "There are processes reports such as this have to go through before publication, and the committee is well informed of these."
 
Meanwhile a No10 source hit out at leaks from the committee, after it was reported that the report will present no evidence of Russian state interference in the EU referendum.
The source said: "The ISC doesn't leak, it shouldn't leak and this one has, in a very selective way. That has caused genuine concern".
Former attorney general Dominic Grieve raised concerns about the report last week.
He told MPs: "The committee has been investigating the threat posed to this country by Russia.
"We've produced a report which, in accordance with the Justice and Security Act, we sent to the Prime Minister on October 17 for him to confirm that there were no classified matters remaining - and there ought not to be because it's already been carefully looked at by the Cabinet Office.
"That confirmation should have been received by today to thus enable publication before the House is dissolved.
"But I regret to say that it has not.
"We thus have a committee of Parliament waiting to lay a report before this House which comments directly on what has been seen as a perceived threat to our democratic processes.
"Parliament and the public ought to have, and must have, access to this report in light of the forthcoming election and it's really unacceptable for the Prime Minister to sit on it and deny them that information."
