
# Nazi-obsessed Moors murderer Ian Brady learnt German after expressing admiration for Hitler

Published at: **2019-11-03T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Gordon Blackstock**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/uk-world-news/nazi-obsessed-moors-murderer-ian-20797660)

Nazi-obsessed Moors ­murderer Ian Brady became so good at speaking German behind bars that he was tipped to land a job as a translator if he was released.
Newly declassified files have revealed the Glasgow-born serial killer received language lessons from a senior university professor while in jail.
He was also visited behind bars by future prime minister James ­Callaghan, then the Home ­Secretary.
Brady, who died in 2017, aged 79, was given German tuition after expressing admiration for ­Hitler and praising the Nazis’ “efficiency”.
The new records show how prison governors praised his intelligence and hoped the classes would end with him leading a “healthy normal life in society”.
After he was jailed in 1966 for torturing and killing five children with partner Myra Hindley, Brady told a prison ­chaplain that his crimes were no different to massacres being carried out by US troops in Vietnam.
 
A welfare officer noted: “He spoke of his interest in the German language, then on Hitler’s use of oratory and referred to his recordings of these, giving a bleak, cracked grin.”
Governors believed they could harness his obsession to allow him to lead a new life should he ever be released.
Two years later, the chief education officer at ­Durham prison said he was excelling in his German classes.
He wrote: “If Brady continues to come along well in his German I see no reason why he should not make a living one day as an interpreter or translator.
“The tuition given to Brady has given a new interest to him in life, begun to pull him out of himself and started him on the long, hard road to a healthy normal life in society.”
 
Some prisoners complained Brady was getting “special treatment” but authorities ­continued the classes as they had “toned up his general ­personality and assisted the prison staff considerably in ­trying to socialise him”.
Brady also passed courses in English literature, maths and psychology and was encouraged to pursue a university degree.
The papers reveal the killer, who ­strangled his victims with string and buried them on Saddleworth Moor, was given lessons in knot-tying while in jail by a young female therapist who became infatuated with him.
They had to be separated because of fears their bond was becoming ­“unprofessional”.
Brady lived out the rest of his life behind bars.
