
# Jurgen Klopp states why Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain has not been starting more games

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:20:08+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-states-alex-oxlade-20789601)

Jurgen Klopp has explained that he has kept Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain out of his Liverpool starting XI because he is still finding his rhythm.
Midfielder Oxlade-Chamberlain has started two Premier League games this season and has also kicked off against Liverpool and MK Dons in the Carabao Cup, along with the 4-1 victory over Genk in the Champions League.
The England international only managed 19 minutes of action last season following his horrendous knee injury and despite putting in some eye-catching performances this season, with three goals in his last two appearances, is yet to return to full steam - by his own admission.
Oxlade-Chamberlain said earlier this week: "Quality-wise, I am not too happy with my performance to be honest.
"I wasn't great on the ball and not near my own personal level of where I want to be. I put in a good shift and run a lot.
"I watch the boys of a weekend and I know what it is about here. You have got to be at a really high physical level to go and put in a performance like that.
And Klopp has admitted that that is music to his ears and has deemed Oxlade-Chamberlain a "long-term project".
"He has scored, nice, both at Genk, a real stunner on Wednesday, a lot of outstanding moments, but other moments he is not involved.
"We always have to try to reach perfection. He still needs rhythm but that is no problem. He is a long-term project.
"It is good a player thinks he is not at his best. He could think he is because he scored some goals. Quite some space for improvement. That is good.
"Best shape ever before injury? He was exceptional."
