
# China, Populism, And The Demise Of The Liberal Global Economic Order

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yuwa Hedrick-Wong**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/yuwahedrickwong/2019/11/03/china-populism-and-the-demise-of-the-liberal-global-economic-order/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2795186769&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesAsia)

The liberal global economic order (liberal order for short) that has been around since the 1950s is in terminal decline. Two trends are converging to undermine it. The first is the steadily diminishing economic dominance of the West, the U.S. in particular, relative to the rest of the world, and to China especially. The second is the rise of populism from within the West, which is an unprecedented challenge to the legitimacy of the liberal order since its inception. The decline of the economic dominance of the West has been a long time in the making. But the rise of China is the game changer. Before that, all emerging markets striving for economic development tended to conform to the practice and values of the liberal order as a matter of course, which are effectively those of the Western societies. The multilateral institutions that are the backbone of the liberal global order were created by the West in their own image. Even though the rise of Japan caused a great deal of anxiety in the U.S. in the 1980s, it was never a real threat to the liberal order itself. China, while playing by the rules of the liberal order when it is advantageous to do so, is also doing things its own way wherever possible. Today, China clearly sees itself as a civilizational state with its own unique values and traditions, and pushes back against Western values’ claim of universality. And as its economic clout grows, China’s ways of doing things are beginning to clash with those of the liberal order.     
The challenge of populism to the liberal order from within the West is even more damaging. Populism can be simply defined as revolt of ordinary people against the political, business and culture elites. What exactly the “ordinary people” are depends on specific circumstance that feeds the populist rage, which is typically animated by nativist politics and ethnocentrism. The eruption of populism in the West today is both surprising and alarming. It is surprising because liberal democracy is supposed to make the society more meritocratic, hence subduing the populist impulse. Yet the opposite has happened. It is alarming because populist politics has moved rapidly from the political fringe to the mainstream in the U.S. and Europe, cumulating in 2016 with the Leave campaign winning the Brexit referendum and Donald Trump winning the White House. 
These two trends are mutually reinforcing. The loss of economic dominance of the West is interpreted by the populists as a failure of the liberal order to protect their national interests, a claim made repeatedly by Donald Trump. Populists also see globalization as the cause of economic hardship that afflicted the “ordinary people.” The rise of populism in turn depletes the domestic political capital of the governments of the West in upholding and defending the liberal order. And Trump being who and what he is, has magnified populism’s global impacts. However, the conditions that led to the convergence of these two trends predated Trump and will persist long after he disappears from public life. The U.S. will remain deeply divided politically whatever the 2020 election outcome. Europe will remain inward looking, consumed with preserving the unity of the EU and the viability of the euro. The rise of China will continue in spite of attempts to ring fence its technological capability and contain its investment abroad. What, then, lies ahead?
A common conjecture is that the world will see a new Cold War between a beleaguered West fighting rear-guard actions against a rising China. A variant of the same theme characterizes it as a multipolar world. In this scenario, the world will break up into two mutually suspicious and disconnected blocs confronting each other, one led by the U.S. and the other by China; and the flows of trade, investment, people, ideas, and finance between them will be severely curtailed, if not stopping altogether. And as the confrontation intensifies, geopolitical tensions will rise, increasing risks of military conflict.
But this Cold War analogy is misleading. The West and the old Soviet bloc that it confronted were economically disconnected, and there was also a bitter struggle of rival ideologies between them. In contrast, the West and China today are economically and financially deeply intertwined. Market capitalism has been, and will continue to be, the driving force that invigorates the Chinese economy. And, in spite of calling themselves the Chinese Communist Party, China’s rulers are profoundly non-ideological. Unlike the former Soviet Union, China today is not a proselytizing power. As much as China has played up its distinctive ancient civilization and traditions, it does not aim to export them; nor is it interested in promoting its approach to economic development to other countries.
A more likely scenario is a gradual balkanization of the global economy into separate but overlapping networks in which countries around the world self-organize in trade and investment, finance, technology and even military alliances. The largest networks will form around “hub economies” like the U.S., China, and perhaps Europe, that sets the rules of engagement in their respective networks because of their market size and economic clout. But unlike the two blocs confronting each other in the Cold War, these networks are never fully mutually exclusive. Many countries will find ways to straddle different networks wherever it is beneficial for them to do so. These networks will be constantly evolving.   
At the business level the situation would become even more fluid because of the global value chains. Under extreme American government pressure, the current global value chains would devolve into several separate networks each dedicated to supplying the U.S., the EU, and China. But these separate networks of global value chains will not be static. They will evolve and connect. For instance, it is virtually impossible for the U.S. government to know which one of the tens and thousands of suppliers to the suppliers of American companies are themselves using supplies from Chinese companies. Connectivity across different networks of value chains would inevitably appear and even flourish, and technological advances will make these connections deeper, more complex, and virtually impossible to untangle.
There is no question that a global economy balkanized into separate but overlapping networks of countries would be much less efficient than the multilateralism of the liberal order. And it would also be less effective in coordinating actions in meeting challenges like global warming and pandemics. However, its network structure is more flexible in accommodating diverse political systems compared with one-size fits all multilateralism, be they capitalist democracy, market authoritarianism, or even theocracy. And it may be more resilient economically since its network structure make it more resistant to a synchronized global economic melt down.
The relative economic decline of the West, the challenge of populism, and the rise of a non-ideological China are converging to bring down the liberal order. However, while the liberal order is dying, the fact of the matter is that we don’t know exactly what a post-liberal order may look like. For the moment, the global economy is like a refugee, it cannot stay where it is, but it does not know exactly where it will end up. This is why the global economy is mired in deep uncertainty.  
