
# McDonald's lodges development application with Lake Macquarie council for a restaurant in Cameron Park

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Star](https://www.newcastlestar.com.au/story/6473606/plans-lodged-for-cameron-park-maccas/)

Cameron Park is in line to house a McDonald's.
The fast food giant has lodged a development application to build a restaurant on the corner of George Booth Drive and Portland Drive.
The application, lodged to Lake Macquarie council late last week, proposes 24-hour per day operating hours, seven days a week.
The proposal includes a McCafe, playground, drive-thru lane, 96-seat dining area, 48-space car park and nine-space bicycle rack.
The site is next to the under construction Cameron Park Plaza, which includes a Woolworths supermarket and other retail stores.
A take-away food and drink premises is permissible under the site's B2 Local Centre zoning.
A parent DA covering the entire commercial area at the entry to Cameron Grove Estate received approval for two take-away food and drink premises.
McDonald's would occupy one of those lots, while another is understood to be earmarked for a KFC.
"The proposed operation will provide a convenient food outlet to serve local workers and residents, as well as motorist passing through the area," a statement of environmental effects provided with the DA says.
"Given the merit of the design of the proposal and the absence of any significant adverse environmental impacts, the DA is considered to be in the public's interest and worthy of council's support."
The number of staff the restaurant would employ is not detailed in the DA, but the surrounding area's population is expected to boom in coming years with a 381-lot subdivision planned for the southern side of George Booth Drive opposite the plaza.
There is an existing restaurant a few kilometres along George Booth Drive in Edgeworth.
McDonald's has also submitted a DA to Lake Macquarie council to vary the operating hours of its Toronto outlet.
The company wants to operate the restaurant from 5am to midnight, seven days a week.
The existing approved operating hours are from 6am to 10pm, Sunday through Thursday, and 6am to midnight on Friday and Saturday.
