
# Fire Service responds to lowest number of Halloween events in seven years

Published at: **2019-11-01T17:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Marie Louise McConville**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/02/news/fire-service-respond-to-lowest-number-of-halloween-events-in-seven-years-1754310/)

FIREFIGHTERS in Northern Ireland responded to significantly fewer calls on Halloween night this year compared to last.
Between 6pm on October 31 and 1am today, Northern Ireland Fire and Rescue Service regional control centre received 77 emergency calls and 51 operational incidents were attended - compared to 127 last year.
Of these, 10 were bonfire related.
It was the lowest number of calls on Halloween night since 2013.
Group Commander, Gerry Lennon, said he was "pleased that it was the lowest number of incidents on Halloween night since 2013".
However, he revealed there were some safety issues during some call outs.
"Crews withdrew from three separate incidents for safety reasons as they encountered crowds of youths throwing stones, bottles and fireworks," he said.
"There were no injuries to our crews".
Meanwhile, the Dublin Fire Brigade was forced to stand down its efforts at a fire in Darndale area of the city due to anti-social behaviour.
It was one of more than 200 fire incidents reported across Dublin on Thursday.
Meanwhile, a record number of visitors enjoyed Europe's biggest Halloween celebration in Derry.
This year the event, which had The Other World Awakens theme, included an an Awakening the Walls trail and the first-ever LegenDerry Halloween food event.
It was estimated that more than 40,000 people lined the banks of the Foyle for the annual parade and fireworks event.
It is believed that around 120,000 people attended events over the festival's eight days.
Mayor Michaela Boyle said she was "thrilled" that the public had turned out in record breaking numbers.
Jim Roddy, City Centre Manger, said: "The whole week has been absolutely outstanding. This year has been much bigger and better than last year."
"This is only going to get bigger and better, the promotion of this city across the world has been tremendous".
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
