
# Monaco's Ruben Aguilar kicks VAR monitor in fit of rage after being red carded

Published at: **2019-11-05T08:43:00+00:00**

Author: **Ned Keating**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/monacos-ruben-aguilar-kicks-var-20813808)

VAR may have generated some anger among football players since its introduction, but Monaco defender Ruben Aguilar let his emotions get the better of him after a decision went against the Frenchman.
Playing for his side in a Ligue 1 clash at Saint-Etienne at the weekend, the 26-year-old was left fuming after video technology did not overturn the decision to send Aguilar off.
The former Montpellier man was no doubt incensed by the dismissal and took his disappointment out on the unfortunate VAR screen that was placed by the side of the pitch.
As he was seen leaving the field of play to head down the tunnel for an early bath, the right-back kicked the monitor before continuing on his way.
 
Aguilar was given his marching orders in stoppage time of a 1-0 defeat away to Saint-Etienne after bringing down Denis Bouanga, scorer of the game's only goal, as he raced towards the penalty box.
Referee Jerome Brisard showed the 26-year-old a straight red car for the foul, a decision which was backed up by VAR much to Aguilar's anger.
And it seems the defender was not the only one left furious, with Monaco manager Leonardo Jardim later telling journalists he thought the officials wanted Saint-Etienne to win.
 
"It is a balanced match, so, who has given the victory? The referee, of course… It is incredible, despite all the mechanisms in place in France," said the Portuguese boss.
"Anyone on TV could have seen that. 99 per cent of people think the same thing and nobody among the people whose job this is says anything.
"Last week, we had a goal against Nantes chalked off, because the referees looked for some offside that happened two minutes before. Today, this happens: 4 minutes of added time with two red cards and six substitutions!"
Aguilar is not the first footballer to lash out at a VAR monitor, with Manchester City forward Gabriel Jesus attacking one during the Copa America earlier this year.
