
# Wanted man arrested in Wolverhampton after police called to 'scrap' in street

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:47:50+00:00**

Author: **Charlotte Regen, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/charlotte-regen/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/wanted-man-arrested-wolverhampton-after-17186085)

A man has been arrested following a 'fight' in Wolverhampton.
Police were called to reports of a disorder on Neachells Lane, in Wednesfield, just before 10.30am today (Friday, November 1).
On arrival, officers came across two men, one of whom was wanted.
An 18-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of firearms offences - unrelated to the disorder.
No injuries were reported.
In a post on social media, the force said: "Our officers and PCSOs swiftly responded to an emergency call today, near to the High Street, where males were reported to be fighting. Two males quickly encountered, and one of them was actually wanted for firearms offences.
"Promptly arrested and taken into custody. Great result."
A spokeswoman for West Midlands Police said: "Police were called to a suspected disorder on Neachells Lane in the Wednesfield area of Wolverhampton just before 10.30am this morning (Friday, November 1).
"There were no reported injuries, but upon arrival, officers arrested an 18-year-old man on suspicion of firearms offences unrelated to today’s incident."
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the  Black Country Crime Watch  Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.    
Keep up-to-date with all things Wolverhampton on our  Wolverhampton Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.        
