
# Pitso And Sirino Facing More Than One Charge?

Published at: **2019-11-03T10:50:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/mamelodi-sundowns/a-mamelodi-sundowns-official-responds-to-nande-becker-s-emails/666626)

Mamelodi Sundowns’ legal and commercial Manager, Yogesh Singh has responded to the latest notice he’s received from the Premier Soccer League’s prosecutor, Nande Becker.
Pitso Mosimane received a letter last week from the PSL regarding comments attributed to him on match officials, while Gaston Sirino is currently being investigated for assault after an incident during Sundowns’ clash against SuperSport United.

        
          Read more: 10 Images Of Chiefs’ First Win Over Bucs In Four Years
        
      
“Yes, I can confirm that I received an email on Friday night from Nande Becker. This notice deals with alleged statements made by our Head Coach, Pitso Mosimane after the Chiefs match and we are required to respond in 5 days to confirm or deny whether this statement was made or not,” Singh said on Sundowns’ official website.
“We are being hit left, right and centre…so this brings to three the number of potential charges our Coach could be facing. But you never know because it seems that every time Pitso speaks there is a charge sheet in my Inbox. And then there are two assault charges against Gaston Sirino.”
“As Mamelodi Sundowns we do not ask that we be treated differently from other clubs but we do insist that we be treated fairly.”
“I made a statement last week that fining coaches, clubs and club owners all over the show does nothing to address the real issue… which is that we need to deal with the poor standard of match officiating and look at ways to fix this. Sundowns and all the other clubs in the league want the same thing… fairness and consistency and we should work with the PSL and SAFA to find a solution to this as soon as we can,” he added.
