
# Plea seeking Maulana Fazlur Rehman's arrest filed in LHC

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:24:00+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/dunyanews**

Original: [Dunya News](https://dunyanews.tv/en/Pakistan/517118-Plea-Maulana-Fazlur-Rehman-arrest-filed-LHC)

LAHORE (Dunya News) – A petition seeking arrest of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman has been filed in Lahore High Court (LHC) today (Monday).According to the plea, JUI-F chairman is inciting the people against incumbent government of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) and Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan during his Azadi March. Maulana’s speeches can spark anarchy among the people, the petition added. It further said that provoking masses against the government comes under rebellion and requested the court to issue directives to detain Maulana Fazlur Rehman.  
On the other hand, JUI-F has convened All Parties Conference (APC) to meet today at his residence to formulate future strategy for the Azadi March.
According to sources, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari will not attend the APC as he is scheduled to address a public rally in Bahawalpur, however, will be represented in the APC by senior PPP leaders.
Leadership of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), Pashtunkhwa Milli Awami Party (PkMAP), Awami National Party (ANP), National Party (NP), Qaumi Watan Party (QWP), Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan (JUP) and Markazi Jamiat Ahle Hadees will attend the All Parties Conference.
Earlier, while addressing the gathering of Azadi March, Maulana Fazlur Rehman said today only one city is locked and in future entire country can be locked.
"They are asking us to go and file complaints with the election commission which even more helpless than us," he added.
