
# 3 Players Shine As Golden Boot Race Heats Up

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:44:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/south-africa/psl-top-goalscorer-race-hots-up/666956)

AmaZulu’s Bonginkosi Ntuli has moved to the top of the goalscoring charts in the Absa Premiership, with the in-form striker joint on seven goals for the campaign with Highlands Park’s Peter Shalulile and Kermit Erasmus of Cape Town City. 
Ntuli, who has scored all of AmaZulu’s goals so far this season, took his tally to seven last night during his team’s impressive 2-0 win over Stellenbosch FC at the Princess Magogo Stadium. 

        Read: Pirates’ Big Decision To Stop Billiat, Nurkovic & Co 
      
The win has helped Jozef Vukusic’s side to move up to 12th on the log standings, away from the relegation zone. 
“As a striker it is always my aim to be scoring goals but I cannot take all the praise. I owe a lot to my teammates for putting me in positions that allow me to score. Without them I won’t be able to get on the scoresheet all the time. I am sure that we will see the others pitching in with goals too, as the season goes on. We have some great players who are able to get on the attack and finish off opponents, so it is just a matter of time before we start seeing that,” Ntuli said prior to the Stellenbosch match, as quoted on Usuthu’s official website.

        Read: Pirates Risk Achieving Terrible Record! 
      
Meanwhile, SuperSport United’s Bradley Grobler, Tshegofatso Mabasa of Orlando Pirates and Knox Mutizwa of Golden Arrows are all on five goals each and in second place on the charts.    
