
# Hector Bellerin opens up on dressing room reaction to Granit Xhaka losing captaincy

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:10:49+00:00**

Author: **Jake Polden, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jake-polden/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/hector-bellerin-opens-up-dressing-20821845)

Hector Bellerin says the Arsenal dressing room respects Unai Emery's decision to strip Granit Xhaka of the captaincy.
There were fears Emery would have a revolt on his hands amid calls from fans for the Swiss to lose the armband after he clashed with Gunners supporters.
Xhaka reacted badly to fans booing him at the Emirates during the draw with Crystal Palace and responded by cupping his ears, swearing, removing his shirt and storming off down the tunnel.
Emery confirmed on Tuesday, on the eve of Arsenal's Europa League clash with Vitoria, that Xhaka was no longer in his pool of captains.
And, according to Bellerin, the Gunners changing room backs the decision.
"Sometimes it's hard to deal with like feelings," said Bellerin. "He made a mistake but as a dressing room we have to be together.
"These things happen and that's it. We back him. He is playing his part now. We respect the players, we respect the decision of the coach and the club.
"For us it's just to give him our love and care. He's one of us so we're just helping him get through it."
Emery made his decision to strip Xhaka of the captaincy after a chat with the Swiss.
He said: "I was speaking with him this morning and also I decided he is not one of the captain's in the group. And also I told the other captains the decision.
"We need to carry on and focus for tomorrow's match and next Saturday's match.
"I needed to make a decision and now it is closed. I needed to make a decision and now it is closed. I told first Xhaka and then the captains and for me it's finished."
