
# As News Aggregators Blossom, Non-Profit Newsrooms Make A Pitch For Support

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Bloom**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dbloom/2019/11/01/as-news-aggregators-blossom-non-profit-newsrooms-make-a-pitch-for-support/?utm_source=TWITTER&utm_medium=social&utm_content=2794494536&utm_campaign=sprinklrForbesMainTwitter)

The list of companies getting into news aggregation these days is long, with offerings from Apple’s News+, Google, and as of last week, Facebook’s News tab. Fox and CNN are reportedly putting together services. Even Starbucks announced today that users visiting its stores will have digital access to the Wall Street Journal, Barron’s, USA Today and 20 local newspapers. But the business of actually creating news-related content hasn’t been doing so well. The parent company of the Gatehouse chain is buying Gannett, and reportedly may kill off the print version of USA Today, among other likely “synergies.” The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette will now publish physical editions of its material only three days a week. Even the digital upstarts have had a hard time, as the many suddenly former employees of Vice, Buzzfeed and, bless them, Deadspin can attest.
But there’s one corner of the industry, beyond the aggregators, actually seeing an uptick: the non-profit news sector. Already, non-profit news organizations around the United States employ 2,000 journalists and have combined revenues from all sources of more than $450 million, according to the recently released Index 2019: The State of Nonprofit News from the Institute for Non-Profit News.
Beginning today, nearly 200 non-profit news organizations around the country are kicking off NewsMatch, their annual 60-day drive to raise funds that will help finance the hard-slog business of covering local institutions, long-term investigative projects and generally holding to account those in power.
Non-profit news organizations are trying to fill some of the gaping holes being torn in our information safety net, and are fast becoming an essential source for the difficult stories too many sites don't have the resources or ambition to tackle.
Last year, 154 non-profits in 42 states took part in NewsMatch, raising $7.6 million during the 60-day drive, said NewsMatch project director Jason Alcorn, who also is the managing director of the American Journalism Project in Washington, D.C.
Depending on each organization's particular needs, their share of those funds were matched against other donations, foundation support and other fundraising campaigns and funding sources.
"It’s very much meant to support the strategies of non-profit newsrooms," Alcorn said. "We’re excited to lean into what makes sense for each one."
Even modest donations can have an outsized impact, amplifying available resources. Alcorn pointed as one example to a Lakeland, Fla., organization that used the money it raised to hire a full-time reporter. An East Lansing, Mich., newsroom funded its entire budget from its NewsMatch-fueled campaign.
These are typically lean-and-mean organizations, organizations intensely focused on the hard news of the town, region or state they serve. They can’t completely replace the once-robust newsrooms of pre-Internet newspapers, but Alcorn said they can have an outsized impact.
"I’m an optimist on this," Alcorn said. "Non-profit news is a young field. It’s not something that gets stood up overnight that does all the things that local papers used to do. On the other hand, it doesn’t take a lot to do that kind of coverage when you compare the costs to other civic institutions that communities support really robustly. An organization with four to six reporters can do a lot."
Non-profit news organizations already have won Pulitzer Prizes and George Polk Awards, frequently collaborate with other news organizations on major projects, and routinely give readers a better understanding of what's happening. Their approach is well beyond the all-too-common Reflex, React and Repost writing out there.
The non-profits these days also are trying to address a broader set of challenges than a decade ago, when such ventures first surfaced, Alcorn said.
"The crisis in news in 2009 was in investigative journalism," Alcorn said. "The organizations were largely investigative reporting centers. Today the crisis in local news, serving local news needs. Local news is a public good. NewsMatch gives them the infrastructure and access to a national campaign."
Smaller donors can use the Newsmatch.org site to find and donate directly to an organization they'd like to suppor. Major donors should connect directly with NewsMatch, Alcorn said.
Regardless of the donation size, the money can help all of us navigate an era of election hackers, data thieves, fake news proclaimers and dubious conspiracy theories.
As traditional news organizations shrink, and focus on the quick and easy stories, non-profit newsrooms are providing at least some of the cold hard facts we need to better understand and succeed as a democracy. If you're looking for a way to make our world a little better, even a small donation here is a fine place to start. 
