
# Necker Island opens to public for 'hotel-style' stays with £3,872-a-night rooms

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:54:30+00:00**

Author: **Julie Delahaye, https://www.facebook.com/juliedjourno**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/travel/caribbean/necker-island-opens-public-hotel-20825573)

Sir Richard Branson is opening up his private island to all holidaymakers - but you're going to need quite the holiday budget.
Necker Island, in the British Virgin Islands, is usually reserved for Sir Richard, or guests who book it out for exclusive use.
The entrepreneur has also been known to invite famous friends for a holiday including the likes of Barack and Michelle Obama, Mariah Carey, Harry Styles and David Hasselhoff.
However for a few weeks a year, dubbed the 'Celebration Weeks' the island opens up in a hotel-style where you can book individual rooms. (You can check out the full list of dates below).
That's because the accommodation consists of Bali-style villas which boast multiple ensuite bedrooms, with breathtaking views of the beaches.
You're going to need a big budget though as rooms start from £3,782 a night for couples.
 
That includes your accommodation, all your food and drink, access to the two infinity pools and the beach hot tub, the tennis courts, water sports equipment, and wireless internet.
Although you'll need to sort your own flights, it does include your return launch transfer from Virgin Gorda or Beef Island airports.
Oh, and on most of the weeks there's a minimum stay of seven nights.
The island is open exclusively for adults for two weeks, before also opening up to families for the following two weeks, so the Celebration Weeks do tailor to a wide array of holidaymakers.
In fact, the island's Great House features a bunk room which sleeps up to six children with additional rates from £2,700 per night.
 
Alongside the special booking openings, Necker Island will be offering small group bookings for the first time, kicking off from June 2020.
That means that small groups of 8-15 people will be able to book the island on a shared non-exclusive basis, with rates from £3,872 per room, per night.
The 74-acre estate suffered significant damage when it was hit by Hurricane Irma, but has since undergone extensive renovations.
That includes the newly renovated Bali Hi complex which will offer private plunge pools and heaps of luxury.
Then of course there are those crystalline ocean waters, white sandy beaches and colourful coral reefs which make up the island's picture-perfect landscape.
