
# ‘Joker’ Is About To Reach Three Huge Box Office Milestones

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott Mendelson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottmendelson/2019/11/02/joker-is-about-to-reach-three-huge-box-office-milestones-passing-man-of-steel-passing-spider-man-3-and-topping-900-million/)

Joker is about to pass Man of Steel in North America, top both Spider-Man: Homecoming and Spider-Man 3 worldwide while becoming the first R-rated movie to reach $900 million in global grosses.In holdover news, DC Films’ Joker earned another $3.84 million (-30%) on Friday to give it a $289.527 million domestic cume. Terminator: Dark Fate provided little in the way of competition and, presuming it has maintained its 32.6%/67.4% overseas split, the $60 million flick has earned $888 million worldwide. That means it’ll pass three big milestones today. First, it’ll pass the $291 million unadjusted domestic cume of Man of Steel. Second, it’ll pass (if it hasn’t already) the unadjusted global cumes of Spider-Man: Homecoming ($880 million in 2017) and Spider-Man 3 ($890 million in 2007) to become the eighth-biggest comic book movie ever worldwide. Oh, and sometime today, the Joaquin Phoenix flick will become the first R-rated movie to pass $900 million in global ticket sales.
The Todd Phillips drama should earn $13.6 million (-30%) in its fifth weekend of release, bringing its domestic cume to $299.2 million. It’ll either pass $300 million domestic tomorrow or very early on Monday. Presuming that split holds, it’ll end tomorrow night with around $918 million worldwide. With these holds, Joker could end up somewhere closer to Suicide Squad ($325 million), Batman v Superman ($330 million) and Aquaman ($334 million) than Thor: Ragnarok ($315 million). And if it really does end up in the Oscar conversation, then it could end as DC Films’ second-biggest movie domestically (behind Wonder Woman) and worldwide (behind Aquaman). It’s too early to predict, but it could make it to $1 billion without China.  
Maleficent: Mistress of Evil earned $3.135 million (-36%) on its third Friday to bring its cume up to $75.284 million. The Angelina Jolie sequel should earn around $13 million (-33%) for an $85.15 million 17-day domestic cume. That should position the $185 million Walt Disney flick for an eventual domestic total of around $115 million domestic, on par with Dumbo ($113 million). However, if its current domestic/overseas split holds (22.2/87.8), then it’ll have earned $383 million worldwide by tomorrow night. And if it holds the line here and abroad, we may see a global cume as large as $518 million worldwide. That’s a big “if,” but Maleficent: Mistress of Evil could be the first mega-budget movie truly “saved” by overseas box office.
The Addams Family should have around $8.78 million (-25%) in its fourth weekend, giving MGM and United Artists’ $42 million toon a solid $85.6 million 24-day cume. Sony’s Zombieland: Double Tap will earn around $7.227 million (-39%) in weekend three for a decent $59.177 million 17-day domestic cume. The $42 million sequel might just reach its predecessor’s (unadjusted) $75 million finish (back in 2009 on a $23 million budget). STX Entertainment’s Countdown, which I’m seeing tonight because my wife is picking the movie (okay, fine, she did do most of the packing and unpacking when we were fleeing from fire this week), earned $1.6 million (-49%) on Friday for a likely $5.32 million (-40%) weekend and $17.236 million ten-day cume. It’ll do for a cheap flick with a targeted marketing campaign.
Sony’s terrific Black and Blue earned $1.13 million (-63%) on its second Friday, for a likely $3.74 million (-55%) weekend and $15.132 million ten-day total. If only everyone yammering about Naomi Harris staring as Moneypenny in the 007 flicks or being one of the villains in Venom 2 gave as much of a damn about Harris in her own R-rated, of-the-moment topical action vehicle. Movies like Andrea Berloff’s The Kitchen and Deon Taylor’s Black and Blue are exactly what we all claimed the end game for pushes toward diversity and inclusivity were supposed to be, and yet nobody is showing up. Hollywood will eventually stop trying, and then you’ll have absolutely no one to blame but yourselves. Vote with your wallet.
Neon’s Parasite expanded to 463 theaters in weekend and should earn around $2.48 million (+36%) for a decent $5,350 per-theater average and a robust $7.381 million 24-day cume. I must assume this one has a $20 million ceiling, but I’ll happily eat crow if this terrific thriller keeps going all the way until Oscar season. Speaking of Oscars, JoJo Rabbit will earn around $2.37 million (+127%) in 256 theaters for a decent $9,269 per-theater average and still-promising $4.255 million 17-day cume. The Lighthouse expanded to 978 theaters on Friday and will earn around $1.83 million (-40%) for a decent $6.81 million 17-day cume. Gemini Man will earn $1.2 million (-54%) for a $47 million 24-day cume while The Current War will fall 54% for a $1.2 million weekend and $5 million ten-day cume.
