
# Blues beat Oilers 5-2 for 6th straight victory

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:42:47+00:00**

Author: **The Associated Press**

Original: [The Seattle Times](https://www.seattletimes.com/sports/blues-beat-oilers-5-2-for-6th-straight-victory/)

EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Alex Pietrangelo had a goal and two assists and the St. Louis Blues remained atop the Western Conference standings, beating the second-place Edmonton Oilers 5-2 on Wednesday night for their sixth straight victory.
Jaden Schwartz, Robert Thomas, Tyler Bozak and Ivan Barbashev also scored for the defending champion Blues.
Connor McDavid and Zack Kassian scored for the Oilers. They have lost two in a row.
Leon Draisaitl extended his points streak to seven games with a feed to McDavid, who tucked his eighth goal of the season through the legs of goalie Jake Allen, to open scoring on a power play 2:46 into the game. St. Louis responded with a power-play goal of its own six minutes into the first when Schwartz tipped Pietrangelo’s point shot past Mike Smith.
Pietrangelo’s long-range shot got past Smith 7 minutes into the second period on another power play. St. Louis added to its lead with 5 minutes remaining in the middle period when Thomas beat Smith to the glove side.
Draisaitl picked up another assist with 9 minutes left when he sent a long feed to Kassian.
Advertising
Bozak’s short-handed empty-net goal went into the net on a lucky bounce before Barbashev added another short-handed empty-netter.
NOTES: St. Louis is tied with Washington for the overall NHL lead with 25 points. … The Blues and Oilers also will meet will meet Dec. 18 in St. Louis and Jan. 31 in Edmonton.
UP NEXT
Blues: At Calgary on Saturday night.
Oilers: Host New Jersey on Friday night.
___
More AP NHL: www.apnews.com/NHL and www.twitter.com/AP_Sports
The Associated Press
