
# Beware of fake landlords

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Y Maheswara Reddy**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/crime/beware-of-fake-landlords/articleshow/71911679.cms)

Couple pay Rs 10 lakh for leased flat. Get ARCIL notice to vacate. Owner feigns ignorance Are you looking a house or a flat to lease in Bengaluru? If the latest complaint at Ramamurthy Nagar Police Station is any indication, the prospective lessees have to think twice before signing the lease agreement with the lessors. Like any prospective lessees, James and Mary (names changed) were very happy when they found information about a two-bedroom flat at Classic Paradise, situated at 2nd Cross, Bachanna Layout of Kasturinagar. The lessees signed the lease agreement with Roshan Pasha by paying Rs 10 lakh on October 29, 2018. The lessees were satisfied with the property documents, like the title deed (katha) and the encumbrance certificate (EC) submitted by Roshan Pasha. The couple had no problems till October 22, 2019 when they received a notice from Asset Reconstruction Company India Limited (ARCIL) asking them to vacate the property and hand over the vacant possession within 15 days. “I was shocked to receive the notice from the ARCIL. Roshan Pasha did not inform us about this litigation before we signed the lease agreement. I don’t know now how we will get back our hard-earned money,’’ said Mary. On Monday, Mary’s brother contacted Roshan Pasha over the phone to inform him about the eviction notice from the ARCIL but the latter feigned ignorance of such legal issue. “I informed Roshan Pasha about the ARCIL legal notice but he said that he was not aware of it. I asked him to repay the lease amount but he told me that he could return the money only after finding a new lessee or a tenant. I am not able to console my sister who is set to lose Rs 10 lakh,’’ said Mary’s brother Allen.
Roshan Pasha did not inform us about this litigation before we signed the lease agreement. I don’t know now how we will get back our hard-earned money. ­
–MaryHe suspected the veracity of the documents produced by Roshan Pasha. “As per ARCIL notice, Neelakantan T U has availed a loan (A/c No. 15357300001176) from Federal Bank Limited by offering the flat No. 306 on the third floor of Classic Paradise. The bank cannot give a loan without having original documents of the property as a surety. When this is the case, how come Roshan Pasha claims ownership of the property? I want the police and other authorities concerned to probe it,’’ he said. Now, Mary, fearing a backlash from Roshan Pasha, has requested her parents to come to Bengaluru from Tamil Nadu and stay with her. Failing to get back the lease amount, Mary has lodged a complaint against Roshan Pasha with Ramamurthy Nagar Police Station. “I have requested the police inspector to help me get back my money from Roshan Pasha. I have no money to find another house for lease. I am not able to focus on the work at office,’’ said Mary. Ramamurthy Nagar Police has registered a non-cognizable report (NCR) against Roshan Pasha on Monday. Meanwhile, Mary’s parents are worried about the safety of their daughter.
