
# Ryan Lowe expecting no Devon Derby hangover from his Plymouth Argyle players

Published at: **2019-11-02T06:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/ryan-lowe-expecting-no-devon-3491701)

Ryan Lowe has insisted that Plymouth Argyle have put behind them the Devon derby drubbing by Exeter City last weekend.
The Pilgrims return to League Two action for the first time since their 4-0 defeat at St James Park when they host Grimsby Town this afternoon.
Argyle did have an EFL Trophy tie against Chelsea Under-21s at Home Park on Tuesday, which they lost 1-0, but that was a very low-key affair.
The visit of Grimsby, however, gives them the opportunity to pick up important league points.
Lowe, during his pre-match Press conference, dismissed talk of the heavy defeat by Exeter being a ‘difficult situation’.
He said: “We haven’t had no difficult situations really. We just had a difficult game and lost.
“So there are no difficult situations. Yeah, the lads might have not performed and whatever else. We get that, they are human beings.
“They don’t go out there to lose. There are no difficult situations.
“I don’t think in footballing terms we have come under any sort of difficult situations all season.
“You might have come under some sort of situation where the ball has been booted up the pitch and we haven’t dealt with a header, or we haven’t dealt with it defensively, then yeah.
“But difficult situations? I don’t think we have put ourselves in many situations at all.”
The defeat by Exeter came after back-to-back wins at Home Park against Carlisle United (2-0) and Leyton Orient (4-0).
Lowe added: “That was one loss in seven. It’s disappointing because it was against your arch rivals, yeah we know, but what can we do?
“It’s gone and we move on quick. I’m a bubbly character, I’m a positive character and I will make sure my players and staff are.
“It’s gone, we move on. We will have a chance to rectify that in March when we play (Exeter) next.
“Until then, we have probably got another 14-15 (league) games to get through so, yeah, we are looking to bounce back on Saturday.”
Argyle’s victories over Carlisle and Orient have left them with a record of four wins, three draws and one defeat from eight home league games this season.
Lowe said: “We have done reasonably well and that’s what we want to continue.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
“We want to make it a fortress, we have to extent. We could finish teams off more and quicker, and see it out, which we haven’t done at times.
“Unfortunately, that’s where we are at at times. We have conceded silly goals, we know that.
“But there is no better place than the training pitch to make sure you put that right and what I can say is the lads are taking on board everything.”
