
# ‘100 per cent’ - Aston Villa sent emphatic transfer message by Rangers boss Steven Gerrard

Published at: **2019-11-03T17:49:42+00:00**

Author: **Shane Ireland, https://www.facebook.com/ShaneIrelandJournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/alfredo-morelos-aston-villa-transfer-17193842)

Steven Gerrard has told Alfredo Morelos’ admirers the striker will ‘100 per cent’ be a Rangers player beyond the January transfer window.
Aston Villa are among the clubs to have been linked with the Colombia international, who continued a prolific run of form with a brace against Hearts on Sunday to secure Rangers’ spot in the Betfred Cup final.
The 23-year-old has now scored 20 goals already this season for Gerrard’s side, who are level on points with Celtic in the race for the Scottish Premiership title.
This is your round up of all things Villa; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Villains throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest AVFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Villa reporter Ashley Preece on Twitter, and his email address is Ashley.Preece@reachplc.com.
 
This week, he sparked concerns that an Ibrox exit could be on the cards in the near future, telling Colombian radio station Blu Radio: “So far there is nothing official.
"There is a lot of speculation of teams things I've read on Twitter and stuff, but there's been nothing concrete, but if there is then I will let you know.
"I just need to continue doing things to the best of my ability and we will see now in the winter transfer window if there’s the chance to make a bigger move, to a much better and more competitive league.
"It would be good for me to keep improving, both for my game and my statistics to keep doing things the best I can."
 
But Gerrard has said in no uncertain terms that his star forward will be going nowhere once the window re-opens.
Asked about his future, he told BT Sport: "I'm not confident... I'm sure. I'm 100 per cent sure he's not going anywhere."
