
# Outrage over 'racist' column that suggests 'Muslims shouldn't be allowed to vote'

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:08:13+00:00**

Author: **Tom Davidson, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/tom-davidson/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/outrage-over-racist-column-suggests-20786788)

A political column which suggested Muslims shouldn't be allowed to vote has attracted widespread outrage.
Writing in The Spectator columnist Rod Liddle said an election should be called on days 'where Muslims are forbidden to do anything'.
A spokesperson for the Muslim Council said that editor Fraser Nelson 'bears ultimate responsibility for the vile racism & Islamophobia that is pouring out of the Spectator".
In the column, which has the headline 'If you do one thing this election, stop your kids voting', Liddle writes: "My own choice of election date would be a day when universities are closed and Muslims are forbidden to do anything on pain of hell, or something.
"There must be at least one day like that in the Muslim calendar, surely? That would deliver at least 40 seats to the Tories, I reckon."
A general election is set to be held on December 12.
The column has provoked a furious reaction with Liddle accused of racism and Islamophobia.
Chancellor Sajid Javid wrote: "Not clear if the Rod Liddle comment is supposed to be a joke - but it's not funny and not acceptable.
"No community in our country should be put down that way."
The Spectator's assistant editor Isabel Hardman also said she "profoundly disagrees" with Mr Liddle's piece and was "hugely upset" by it, adding she has "nothing to do" with pieces in the magazine except those she writes herself.
Another section in the column appeared to mock Labour MP Rosie Duffield, who last month spoke out about a previous abusive relationship she had while discussing the Domestic Abuse Bill.
Former Tory MP Nick Boles, who now sits as an indepenent, wrote on Twitter : "Rod Liddle once said I was never a ‘proper Tory’.
"Presumably because, in his view, ‘proper Tories’ are out and out racists who hate British Muslims. Repulsive man."
David Lammy said the column is 'hate speech'.
On Twitter he said: "Mocking Rosie Duffield for having the courage to speak out about domestic abuse and calling for ways to stop British Muslims voting. Rod Liddle is beyond the pale, but Fraser Nelson how can you justify giving his bile a platform on the Spectator?"
Brendan Cox, the widower of murdered MP Jo Cox, wrote: "If you aren’t sure whether this is acceptable, try replacing Muslim with Jew. Then see what you think. It’s disgraceful."
Tell Mama, a charity which supports victims of anti-Muslim hate, said in a statement: "This is appalling in the Spectator by Rod Liddle.
"His suggestions are that Muslims should be unable to vote. What do we call that - Outright prejudice.
"This in 2019, when 3 Muslims have been murdered since 2013 for being - British Muslims. Despicable."
In a later tweet they added: "British Muslims are NOT second class citizens. Get......that....CLEAR!
"For the love of God, the more this is pushed by publications like the Spectator, the more we create a two tier society which we DON’T need. Equality means EQUALITY for all!"
In 2005 Liddle accepted a police caution for common assault against his then-pregnant girlfriend.
Mr Liddle described Ms Duffield as "the sobbing and oppressed Rosie '#MeToo' Duffield".
Fraser Nelson has yet to respond to the criticism for the column on his Twitter account and the column remains on the Spectator website.
