
# Sharing dressing room with seniors helped improve my game, states Shubhman Gill

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:39:51+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/07/sharing-dressing-room-with-seniors-helped-improve-my-game-states-shubhman-gill?utm_medium=rss)


        India international Shubhman Gill has asserted that sharing the dressing room with top players has helped him with the wisdom to grow and improve his game. Gill further said that the difference between playing for India A and for the Men in Blue is the amount of mental preparation.
      
Gill, 20, made his ODI debut for India against New Zealand early this year and has stated that it was the biggest experience for him as sharing the dressing room with seniors has helped him learn and lot about the game. Since his ODI debut, the youngster has led India A against South Africa A, and also India C in the recently concluded Deodhar Trophy.
“The difference (between India A and India) is only about how mentally prepared are you for a higher level of cricket and the extent of hunger in you to succeed,” Gill said.
The cricketer from Punjab further explained the required change in approach across different playing levels, especially since his journey from being vice-captain of the U-19 side to this day has been smooth and quick. 
“The bowling at the U-19 level is not of the same calibre as international cricket. I am aware that the ease with which runs could be scored at junior level will not happen,” Gill was quoted as saying by Sportstar.
“I need to accept that reality and once I get set, pacing the innings is an aspect about the game which needs to be grasped. Batting is tough on wickets in New Zealand, so adapting to those conditions was a valuable experience,” Gill added.
