
# IPL governing council members to meet for 2020 roadmap

Published at: **2019-11-05T05:40:30+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/05/ipl-governing-council-members-to-meet-for-2020-roadmap?utm_medium=rss)


        The Indian Premier League (IPL) governing council members will meet at the BCCI headquarters on Tuesday to discuss the roadmap for next year’s edition of the tournament. The meeting will be chaired by former India cricketer Brijesh Patel in newly-elected BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s absence.
      
The first governing council meeting since the new BCCI apex council was elected on October 23 will include Khairul Jamal Majumdar and Surinder Khanna. Rahul Johri, the Board’s CEO, is also likely to attend the meeting, but none of the franchises has been invited.
“With the IPL auction scheduled to be held in Kolkata next month, the idea is to take stock of things and come up with a road map for next season’s league. The planning has already started and we need to execute them properly,” one of the BCCI officials told Sportstar.
Some reports have suggested the introduction of a new ‘Power Player’ concept from next year’s IPL, but at this point, Board officials refused to divulge details, claiming that it’s ‘still in the planning stage’.
“The idea is to ensure that the tournament becomes exciting, so there have been proposals for introducing ‘Power Player’. Nothing is finalised yet. We are exploring all the options and decision will be taken over the course of time. The idea is to make the tournament fan-friendly, and we will take every suggestion into consideration,” the official added.
The ‘Power Player’ is a unique concept where the teams will announce 15 players instead of final 11, and a player is allowed to be substituted either at the fall of a wicket or at the end of the over at any point in the game.
