
# Police hunt thug who robbed Larkhall bookies brandishing a knife

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:06:23+00:00**

Author: **Shirley Bartynek, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/shirley-bartynek/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/police-hunt-thug-who-robbed-20807196)

Police are hunting a balaclava-clad thief who robbed a Larkhall bookies on Tuesday, October 29.
At around at 6pm, a man entered Betfred Bookmakers in Union Street and threatened staff with a knife, demanding money.
He then left the building through the rear fire exit doors with a three-figure sum of cash.
There were two members of staff and one member of the public within the store at the time.
No-one was injured but they have been left badly shaken by the incident.
The suspect is white, around 5ft 8ins in height, aged between 30 and 40, with a slim build.
He was wearing a black tracksuit top with a blue stripe on each arm with matching tracksuit bottoms.
And he had his hood up and was wearing a black balaclava, with a yellow motif, across his face to conceal his identity. He spoke with a local accent.
Officers have been checking CCTV footage from in and around the area for any information which could assist in their inquiries.
Detective Constable John Law said: “This has been a frightening experience for the people in the shop.
“I am appealing to people who were in the area around the time of the incident to think back and consider if they saw this man hanging about outside the premises, or did you notice a man matching the description running away from the premises?”
Anyone with information is asked to call CID officers in Cambuslang Police Station via 101, quoting incident number 3002 of October, 29 2019. Alternatively, call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111 where information can be given anonymously.
