
# Take Me Out hopeful who is celebrity bodyguard tackles Paddy McGuinness to the floor

Published at: **2019-11-01T15:50:04+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/take-out-hopeful-who-celebrity-20789673)

Take Me Out has returned for its eleventh series and one of the ladies looking for love is celebrity bodyguard Tammy.
The 39-year-old Close Protection Officer, who boasts A-lister Samuel L Jackson as one of her clients, is quick to show off her fiery personality and confidence as she tackles host Paddy McGuinness to the ground whilst demonstrating her martial art skills in scenes set to air on Saturday night on ITV.
Proving she is not afraid to be in the spotlight, the Blackpool native, who has been single for eight months, pins comedian Paddy to the floor before placing her heeled foot on his chest.
 
Taken by surprise, the six foot tall presenter grimaces as he rolls around on the floor before getting back up to her feet as the audience and flirty 30 contestants erupt into laughter.
Tammy's impressive display came after she was urged to show off her expertise by the joker, after he held a banana up to his ear to mimic making a distressed phonecall.
 
 
The new series has seen a bit of a shake-up for the ITV dating hit - including the boys having to conjure up interesting date ideas.
It will also features two upcoming specials alongside the seven episodes.
One will be an 80s themed bash, with the other giving men and women of the emergency services a chance to flex their romantic muscles.
 
 
Host Paddy reckons the themes are a great idea, saying: "The first one is an emergency services special, so it's an episode full of firefighters, police and ambulance workers.
"All the girls work within the emergency services and all the lads coming down the lift do as well.  We thought it'd be a nice idea to celebrate them all and everything they do."
The funnyman added: "We have done an over-50s special in the past, but this is the decade. It's celebrating the 80s, so I've gone back to my Miami Vice days. I'll be in a white suit with a pastel vest and all the girls will have big hair.
"The music and everything about the show will be 80s. I'm really looking forward to that, it'll be a lot of fun."

        *Take Me Out airs on Saturday at 7:15pm.
      
