
# Plymouth Argyle legend Paul Sturrock inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:14:02+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/plymouth-argyle-legend-paul-sturrock-3490950)

Former title-winning Plymouth Argyle manager Paul Sturrock has been inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame.
That has led to the 63-year-old getting recognition in the House of Commons this week in an Early Day Motion placed by North East Fife MP Stephen Gethins on Wednesday.
Sturrock was one of six former players inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame as part of the class of 2019 at a ceremony on Sunday night.
The others included John Robertson, Hearts’ all-time leading scorer with 214 goals, who is now the manager of Scottish Championship club Inverness Caledonian Thistle.
Sturrock had two spells as Argyle manager, the first from 2000 until 2004 and then between 2007 and 2010.
In his first stint, he took the Pilgrims to one promotion, and the brink of another before leaving to take over at Southampton.
As a player, he spent the whole of his career at Dundee United, scoring 171 goals, winning two League Cups, a Scottish league title and reaching the final of the UEFA Cup and semi-finals of the European Cup.
Sturrock was part of two Scotland World Cup squads and won 20 senior international caps.
He also had spells as first team coach and manager of Dundee United before moving to England for the first time with Argyle.
The Early Day Motion placed by Gethins read: “That this House congratulates former Dundee United FC player Paul Sturrock on being appointed to Scottish Football’s Hall of Fame along with other new appointees and fellow former Scottish football players John Robertson, Colin Stein, Tommy McLean, Joe Harper and Patsy Gallacher.
“Notes that Paul Sturrock spent his entire playing career with Dundee United and in 385 appearances scored 109 goals winning the club’s only league title, to date, in 1983, and scoring in both victorious League Cup final wins in 1979 and 1980.
“Recognises a lifetime of achievement in football including being named SFWA Footballer of the Year in 1982, winning 20 caps for Scotland including playing in the 1982 and 1986 World Cups as well as an incredible record in European football for the club and acknowledges the support he has from Dundee United fans.”
The motion was supported by Labour MP Jim Cunningham and Dundee East MP Stewart Hosie.
