
# Cleveland Cavaliers Made The Right Decision Extending Koby Altman

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Evan Dammarell**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/evandammarell/2019/11/02/cleveland-cavaliers-made-the-right-decision-extending-koby-altman/)

Cleveland Cavaliers general manager Koby Altman agreed to a long-term contract extension, the team confirmed on Friday. The extension was originally reported by ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski. Altman, 37, originally signed a three-year deal upon his promotion in 2017. He is the first general manager to receive a contract extension in the Dan Gilbert ownership era. Gilbert bought the Cavaliers in 2005.“Koby has been a culture-driver and an innovator who has built a fresh, new foundation and environment for our front office and team that inspires everyone involved,” said Cavaliers Chairman Dan Gilbert in a statement. “He is a passionate leader who is executing a very dynamic, strategic plan for the future of the team and our vision for growth and success. Koby’s collaborative approach has also extended beyond the team and had a consistent, positive impact across our entire organization. I look forward to seeing his hard work and creativity continue to make us better and help guide the team towards reaching our goals for years to come.”
“I’m truly humbled and excited to sign a long-term extension with the Cavaliers and I look forward to continuing the overall development and growth we are experiencing with this team,” said Altman in a statement. “We have a first-class organization, led by our Chairman Dan Gilbert, an extraordinary fanbase and a great team behind the team, who provide incredible resources and opportunities for us to be successful. I’m also thankful to our players, coaches and support staff, who have shown continued trust and displayed their commitment to our process of establishing a sustainable and winning culture here in Cleveland. Northeast Ohio is a special place, and my family and I are thrilled to remain in this community for years to come.”
Altman began his career with Cleveland as a pro personnel manager in 2012, and a year later was promoted to director of pro player personnel. He also served as assistant GM in 2016, assuming that role after the Cavaliers won the NBA title. Now, as Cleveland’s general manager, Altman has been given the task of reshaping and retooling the Cavaliers post-LeBron James. He also has been a driving factor in establishing a healthy, sustainable culture, which truly began when he hired John Beilein to be the team’s current head coach.
“That was one of the attractive things about taking the job," Beilein said of Altman. "I knew Mike Gansey really well but he had such great things to say about Koby and then during the whole process I could see a guy I would love to work for. Just love the direction of everything. Have great faith in each other. He’s letting me coach and at the same time he understands what we need in a roster and I think he’s going to build that.”
That roster that Beilein mentioned, is another part of Altman’s vision for the future of Cavaliers basketball. So far, he has been highly successful in Cleveland’s renaissance. Last year, Cleveland drafted point guard Collin Sexton out of Alabama, who finished the year with second-team all-rookie honors. This summer, Altman and his staff added Darius Garland, Dylan Windler and Kevin Porter Jr. through the NBA Draft and all three are expected to be foundational pieces for the organization going forward. Altman also has locked up Kevin Love, Cedi Osman and Larry Nance Jr. to long-term deals to compliment and star alongside their influx of young talent.
Not only has Altman shaped Cleveland’s roster to his vision, but he also has set the team up for sustainable success as well. Last November, Altman sent Kyle Korver to the Utah Jazz for Alec Burks and two second-round picks in 2020 and 2021. Soon after, Altman sent George Hill to the Milwaukee Bucks and Sam Dekker to the Washington Wizards and brought back fan-favorite Matthew Dellavedova, John Henson, Milwaukee's 2022 first-round draft pick, Washington's 2020 second-round pick and Milwaukee's 2021 second-round pick. On February 4, Rodney Hood was shipped off to the Portland Trailblazers for Wade Baldwin, Nik Stauskas and Portland's 2021 and 2023 second-round draft selections. Altman then packaged Burks, along with Stauskas and Baldwin, in a three-team trade with the Houston Rockets and the Sacramento Kings, sending Burks to Sacramento and the former Blazers to Houston and bringing back Brandon Knight, Marquese Chriss and Houston's 2019 first-round pick and 2022 second-round pick.
Altman did all of this while Cleveland had limited cap space to make trades.Lleading up to the trade deadline the Cavaliers possessed only their own first-round draft pick this year, which would have conveyed to the Atlanta Hawks if it were to fall out of the top ten. When the trade deadline passed at 3 PM EST on February 7, the Cavaliers possessed two additional first-round picks in 2019 and 2021 along with six extra second-round picks over the next four years. Some of those second-round selections were used in a package this summer to obtain the draft rights Porter Jr., who Altman and his staff viewed as a top-ten talent.
In the end, the Cavaliers made the right decision in extending Altman. He has a clear vision of Cleveland’s future, and now has been given the reassurance by the organization that he can see it fully executed. The future looks bright for Cavaliers basketball, especially now with the man shaping it in town for the foreseeable future.
