
# Mane Breaks Silence On Guardiola Claims

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/sadio-mane-breaks-silence-on-pep-guardiola-claims/666957)

After Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola recently seemed to claim that Liverpool superstar Sadio Mane dives too much, the African forward has responded to the Spaniard's remarks ahead of their top-of-the-table clash this coming weekend.

        
          Click through the gallery above to see the six top goalscorers in the Premier League so far this season, according to Transfermarkt.
        
      
The former FC Barcelona and Bayern Munich boss appeared to accuse the Senegal international of going to ground too easily in a recent interview, comments Jurgen Klopp responded to by denying his claims.
Guardiola then, in an attempt to clarify his statement, insisted he was not trying to take aim at Mane, who has now said he will not take too much note of what the City manager has said about him.

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
"I think it's a bit clever from him to get the attention of the referee, but I will just play my football like I'm always doing," Mane said, according to Reuters.
"I don't pay attention to what he's saying because it's part of football. If the 'dive' will give me a penalty, then I will do it.
"Why not? But what coach Jurgen (Klopp) said is correct. I do not dive."

        
          Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?
        
      
Mane will be hoping to add to his tally of six Premier League this season at Anfield on Sunday.
