
# Royal Mint launches iconic The Snowman coins in time for Christmas

Published at: **2019-11-05T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Record Reporter**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/royal-mint-launches-iconic-snowman-20811698)

Special edition 50p coins featuring iconic kids’ character The Snowman are expected to fly off shelves ahead of Christmas.
The Royal Mint has launched three types of collectible 50p pieces featuring the Raymond Briggs’ creation in the timeless tale of the snowman and his schoolboy pal James.
The pair who head off on a magical adventure to the North Pole have already been immortalised in a heart-tugging animation of the book traditionally screened over the festive season.
 
The new coin is the second in The Snowman series and shows the character with James in a picturesque snowy scene just before they head off on their journey.
While the basic nickel coins for £10 will be in abundance, the Royal Mint said there will be just 600 gold coins costing £980 each and 25,000 sterling silver ones for £65.
The artwork on the coins has been designed by award-winning animator and illustrator Robin Shaw, the assistant director of The Snowman and sequel The Snowdog.
Best selling children’s book The Snowman was created and illustrated by Raymond Briggs and has sold more than 5.5 million copies globally since it was first published in 1978.
Nicola Howell, director of consumer at The Royal Mint said: “Following the fantastic response to The Snowman’s debut appearance on a 50p coin to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Raymond Briggs’ classic tale in 2018, we are delighted to introduce the second coin in the series capturing James and The Snowman’s friendship.
“Over the past few years, the Beatrix Potter, Gruffalo and Paddington collections have been extremely popular, and we believe the second Snowman coin will be equally as successful. This particular coin, continues the story and focuses on the next step of The Snowman and James’ magical journey.”
