
# Factbox: How to watch Apple TV+, Apple's entry in the streaming wars

Published at: **2019-11-01T10:59:26+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-media-apple-appletv-factbox-idUSKBN1XB3TM)

LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) unveils its streaming entertainment service, Apple TV+, in more than 100 markets on Friday.
The offering will be free for a year for anyone who buys any new iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, Mac or iPod touch. The cost for others is $4.99 per month after a seven-day free trial.
Here are details on how to subscribe and watch.
- Customers can sign up and watch programming through the Apple TV app or through a web browser
- The Apple TV app is available on the iPhone, iPad, Apple TV 4K, Apple TV HD, the third-generation Apple TV device, iPod touch and Mac computers
- People who do not have an Apple device have a few options:
- Sign up and watch through the Apple TV app using a Roku device, select Samsung smart TVs or on Amazon Fire TV devices
- Use AirPlay2, Apple’s WiFI streaming technology, to watch via certain Samsung, LG and VIZIO smart TVs
- Go through a web browser at tv.apple.com in Safari, Chrome and Firefox
- Apple has said the Apple TV app will expand to other smart TVs, streaming boxes and streaming sticks in the future.
- Customers eligible for the free, one-year subscription can start it by going to the Apple TV app.
- Purchasers who bought a new Apple device between Sept. 10 and Nov. 1 and want to claim the free subscription must activate it within three months of Nov. 1. Purchasers of new Apple devices after Nov. 1 have three months from the activation date of a new device.
- People who activate the year-long free trial will be charged $4.99 per month after the year ends. The subscription can be canceled at any time in device settings.
