
# Jets’ Adams clears air with Douglas, Gase about trade talk

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **DENNIS WASZAK Jr.**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/7/jets-adams-clears-air-with-douglas-gase-about-trad/)

FLORHAM PARK, N.J. (AP) - Jamal Adams finally cleared the air with Joe Douglas and Adam Gase.
The New York Jets safety spoke with the general manager and head coach Monday, six days after Adams said he was “hurt” by being “shopped” by the team in trade talks.
Adams chatted last week with team chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson, but wasn’t ready to sit down with either Douglas or Gase to discuss the situation. Adams let his emotions cool, and then had the peace talks.
“We just cleared it up,” Adams said Thursday. “(Douglas) apologized, I apologized. Simple.”
After the NFL’s trade deadline passed last Tuesday, Adams tweeted that Douglas “went behind my back” to listen to offers involving him. That came after Adams told the GM a few days earlier he wanted to stay in New York. Douglas insisted he never shopped Adams, but was merely fielding teams’ calls.
Still, Adams was bothered by the whole situation. The Dallas Cowboys even tweeted that they looked into acquiring Adams but fell short. Douglas and the Jets set the price for trading Adams so exorbitantly high that it was clear New York wanted the playmaking safety to remain.
“It went well,” Adams said of his chat with Douglas and Gase. “I told them I don’t hate those guys. They said they don’t hate me. I have nothing but love and respect for them, you know what I mean? So, we’ve moved on. We apologized to each other.
“We went about it a little different way on both ends. It is what it is. You live and learn. It’s part of life. It’s not going to hurt our relationship or anything, or how I feel about this organization.”
Adams, who made the Pro Bowl last year in his second season, said last week he thought he knew where he stood in the Jets’ long-term plans but was uncertain after this situation.
He softened a bit on that Thursday, but his contract could become an issue in the offseason. He’s signed through next year, but Adams could be looking for a new deal or an extension - especially if he finishes with another Pro Bowl selection or makes the All-Pro team.
“I’d love to be here, man,” said Adams, due to make $3.5 million next year. “I would love to be here, as simple as that. I want to bring success to this organization. I want to bring a Super Bowl to this organization. That’s why I feel like I was placed in New York, to kind of pick up where my Dad left off, you know what I mean?”
Adams’ father, George, was a running back for the Giants from 1985-89 and was part of the team that won the franchise its first Super Bowl in the 1986 season - but didn’t play in the game because of a hip injury that cut short his season. He later played two seasons for New England, but was done playing at 29 years old.
“I just feel like it’s my calling,” Jamal Adams said about playing in New York. “But I don’t know those things, you know what I mean?
“But do I want to be here? Yes, of course.”
NOTES: RB Le’Veon Bell was a limited participant in practice, an improvement after not taking part in team drills Wednesday. “I hope throughout the week, tomorrow I feel better, Saturday I feel better, and get ready for Sunday,” Bell said. … C Ryan Kalil (knee), LB C.J. Mosley (groin) and CB Darryl Roberts (calf) did not practice. … DE Henry Anderson (shoulder), TE Chris Herndon (hamstring), LB Neville Hewitt (neck/knee), LB Jordan Jenkins (calf), NT Steve McLendon (neck), WR Demaryius Thomas (hamstring) and G Brian Winters (knee/shoulder) were limited. … Rookie CB Bless Austin was activated from the non-football injury list and could make his NFL debut Sunday. The former Rutgers standout has been rehabilitating a knee injury that he suffered in last season’s opening game. … The Jets waived LB B.J. Bello to make room on the roster for Austin.
More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC.
 
