
# Best Pre-Black Friday Video Game Deals From Best Buy, eBay & Others

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Don Reisinger**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/07/best-pre-black-friday-video-game-deals-from-best-buy-ebay-others/)

Buying a new gaming console can be difficult. You first need to evaluate how much you want to spend and then see what kinds of games are available on each console. And when all that’s done, you then need to examine whether you have the other technology, like a high-end television, available HDMI ports and more, to just get the console up and running.But once you’ve figured that out, you can move ahead with choosing a video game console. And when you do, you might find that at several hundreds of dollars, game consoles aren’t cheap. Even the Nintendo Switch, which is the cheapest of the three major consoles available today, is priced at $300.
Luckily for you, retailers are offering a variety of outstanding video game deals that can help you save a few bucks on your console buy and in some cases, get a new device with games included.
Read on for our look at some of the best deals on gaming consoles you can take advantage of right now.
The Xbox One S is easily one of the most powerful gaming consoles ever released, boasting a massive selection of awesome games and a futuristic design that should look great in any living room. 
This bundle, however, means that you can take advantage of the console right out of the box, as it comes with The Division 2, in which you’ll play as the leader of a team of elite agents in a post-pandemic Washington D.C. It’s a highly-reviewed game, and any gamer will love it.
The Xbox One S bundle with The Division 2 is available now from eBay for $199.99 — which is $50 off its normal price.
Perhaps you’re more of a PlayStation gamer, and there’s a great bundle for you too. The PlayStation 4 Slim is relatively compact, but it’s still ultra-powerful and has access to a ton of awesome games.
One such game is the new Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, which reboots the popular series with a game that has also gotten some excellent reviews. In the game, you’ll take on the role of a lethal operator fighting to keep global power in balance. 
Normally, the bundle comes at $396.99, but it’s now available for $300 — or $97 off its normal price.
Perhaps the coolest new gaming device of the past few years is the Nintendo Switch, and more recently, the Nintendo Switch Lite. The Switch Lite is a little more portable than the standard Switch, and it doesn’t allow for gaming on your TV, but many prefer to use it on the go anyway — and you’ll still be able to play all those awesome Switch games. 
While the Switch Lite is normally available for $199.99, eBay is currently selling it for $189.99. It’s not a huge discount, to be sure, but considering the Switch Lite is only a few months old, it’s not bad at all.
Once you have your Xbox One S, you’ll probably want a few accessories for it. For example. You may want an extra controller or two to play with your friends. Or, you may want a charging dock for your controllers so you don’t have to manually charge them up.
Best Buy has announced a few discounts on a range of accessories, so whether it’s a new controller, a headset, or something else entirely, there should be something available for your needs.
If you end up going for the PlayStation 4 instead of the Xbox, then you’ll need some accessories for it too. Best Buy has some great PS4 accessory deals, so no matter what you’re looking for, there should be something for your needs.
For example, you can get the Logitech G Pro wired gaming headset for $49.99, or $40 off its normal price. Alternatively, you can get a Ps4 controller charging dock for $19.99, which is $5 off.
 
