
# Capcom Didn't Like The Idea Of A Street Fighter Character In Mortal Kombat, Wasn't A Good Fit

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:10:00+00:00**

Author: **Liam Doolan**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/capcom_didnt_like_the_idea_of_a_street_fighter_character_in_mortal_kombat_wasnt_a_good_fit)

Capcom has a long history of teaming up with Marvel, and has even allowed some of its characters in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate most recently, but would it be open to the likes of Ryu and Ken one day appearing in the brutal, violent and bloody Mortal Kombat series?
Apparently not, according to Street Fighter producer Yoshinori Ono. During an on-stage interview with Eurogamer at EGX last month, Ono was asked if he was the one who denied Ed Boon's request to add a Street Fighter character to Mortal Kombat.
While it's true the proposal was made, he wasn't the one who personally knocked Boon back:
Eurogamer followed this up by asking if it was a case of the two worlds not mixing. Ono confirmed it was indeed a "major concern" for Capcom at the time.
Would Capcom be open to any crossovers in its own game, though? Although nothing was specifically mentioned about a Mortal Kombat character coming to the Street Fighter series in the future, Ono did note how Capcom liked the idea of guest fighters:

        Do you think Capcom made the right call? How would you feel about a character like Ryu appearing in Mortal Kombat? Would it work better the other way round? Leave a comment below.
      
[via eurogamer.net]
