
# X Factor deny Love Island band No Love Lost mimed during live show

Published at: **2019-11-03T12:17:12+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/x-factor-forced-deny-no-20801543)

The X Factor: Celebrity has denied claims pop group No Love Lost - made up of Love Island's Wes Nelson , Zara McDermott , Samira Mighty and Eyal Booker - were miming on Saturday night's show.
The ITV talent show have claimed it is "categorically not true" that the foursome were lip-syncing after viewers of the series accused the band on social media.
Shutting down the rumours, an X Factor Spokeswoman told Mirror Online: "This is categorically not true. All of the acts sang live on Saturday nights show - as they always do, including No Love Lost."
The denial came after viewers took to Twitter accuse the Love Island contestants of miming during their rendition of Would I Lie To You? by Charles and Eddie.
"Been watching this for 5 minutes and can already see that love island group are miming," scathed one.
Another fired: "Omg are love island band MIMING the chorus?"
"Little tip to the Love Islanders... If you wanna convincingly mime, maybe start with actually holding the microphone to your mouth?!" quipped a third.
But Simon Cowell was clearly impressed as he pressed the golden buzzer to send them through to the next round.
While a source, who was at the live show, also shared: "No Love Lost put in a great performance and are looking forward to performing again next week.
"They’ve been working so hard with their vocals, and it’s obviously working as Simon gave them a seat and they’re through to the third live show!"
Some fans were left baffled when music mogul Simon Cowell awarded the group with a safe seat - meaning they received an automatic place onto next week's show.
One shocked viewer wrote: "Wait Cowell gave No Love lost a Seat what on earth was he thinking. They are bloody awful. This is why his shows are dying. #XFactorCelebrity ."
Another joked: "Wow is simon on drugs #XFactorCelebrity that performance from No Love Lost made me feel sick."
"No Love Lost got a safe seat? But they were c**p. (Well cr***ier than the others so far) #xfactorcelebrity ," jibbed an unimpressed fan.

        *The X Factor: Celebrity continues next Saturday at 8.30pm on ITV
      
