
# Sadio Mane explains Jurgen Klopp's Liverpool dressing room secret

Published at: **2019-11-04T22:35:51+00:00**

Author: **Rich Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/rich-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/sadio-mane-explains-jurgen-klopps-20812571)

Liverpool ace Sadio Mane has revealed the "secret" to Jurgen Klopp's success at Liverpool - being a father figure in the dressing room.
Klopp has transformed the Anfield outfit into Champions League winners and Premier League title contenders since taking the top job in 2015.
Senegalese striker Mane has been amongst the players to benefit from Klopp's management, being one of a record-breaking seven Liverpool players on the latest Ballon d'Or shortlist.
In a revealing interview with France Football , giving a glimpse inside the Anfield dressing room, Mane explained just how Klopp is viewed by his players and why that is vital to his success.
Mane said: “His secret, I think, is to be the team’s dad. Between us, everything clicked straight away.
"We all love him like a father and we fear him like one too.
"He takes up a lot of space in my life, and not just in football. He’s great as a person.
"I trust him blindly, like most of the dressing room, I think.”
In the same interview, Mane also insisted his disagreement with Mohamed Salah from earlier this season is behind him, stating it is a "pleasure" to play with the Egyptian.
“He’s a crazy goalscorer and an exceptional player who can do everything," he said.
"We have sometimes had our disagreements, but it remains a great pleasure to play besides him because I have the feeling we speak the same type of football.”
Mane also opened up on the impact of "true friend" Naby Keita in his life on Merseyside.
He added: “He’s more than a friend for me, he’s a brother.
"It hasn’t been easy for him lately because he was injured for a long time, but I know he’ll come back at his best, because he’s working hard to do so.
“He just needs to improve his English to be understood more by everyone, but to be able to count on a true friend in the group, that’s priceless. It’s even calming at times.”
