
# Companies' code of conduct not a rulebook but a playbook — MICG

Published at: **2019-11-01T04:48:27+00:00**

Author: **Arjuna Chandran Shankar**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/companies-code-conduct-not-rulebook-playbook-%E2%80%94-micg)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 1): Malaysian Institute of Corporate Governance (MICG) deputy president David Berry said today the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission's (MACC) guidelines should be applied practically and proportionally to the size of companies and industries.
Berry, who was speaking at the ACCCIM Seminar on Corporate Criminal Liability for Corruption here today, said anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) frameworks and codes of conduct should emulate those in larger entities, and then scaled down to the size and abilities of the company in question.
He said a code of conduct is not a rulebook for a company, but a playbook instead, as it will influence behaviour within a company. "XYZ Sdn Bhd will not be held to the same standards as Petroliam Nasional Bhd [Petronas]," he said.
Berry said companies have to address issues like employee loyalty, honesty, integrity and commitment to excellence in plain language, which can be understood by anyone in the organisation.
He said codes of conduct should reflect the legal and regulatory environment wherever a company operates and ensure the highest standard is set.
Furthermore, this should be written for everyone that deals for the company, including agents, according to him.
Themes such as gift giving and entertaining, transparency in corporate reporting and disclosures besides encouragement of whistleblowing should be covered under the code of conduct, he said.
