
# Lamar Jackson running toward record book

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:46:27+00:00**

Author: **Associated Press**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/lamar-jackson-running-toward-record-book)

Lamar Jackson is going to juke his way into the record books if he keeps running like this.
The second-year quarterback has 637 yards rushing through eight games and is on pace to break Michael Vick's single-season record of 1,039 yards set in 2006. No other quarterback has run for 1,000 yards in a season. Jackson is on pace for 1,274 yards.
It's no surprise the Baltimore Ravens have the NFL's best run offense thanks to Jackson's team-high total. Mark Ingram is second with 585 yards. The Ravens are averaging 204.9 yards on the ground per game. No NFL team has averaged at least 200 yards rushing per game since Walter Payton helped Chicago do it in 1977.
Jackson also leads the league with an average of 6.4 yards per carry. He has three 100-yard games this season. Le'Veon Bell, Todd Gurley and LeSean McCoy have combined for zero.
Here's a look inside more numbers entering Week 10:
STAFFORD SLINGS: Matthew Stafford became the first quarterback in NFL history to reach 40,000 yards passing in fewer than 150 games. He has thrown for at least 300 yards and three touchdowns in each of Detroit's last three games. He has 22 such games in his career. Only Aaron Rodgers (31), Drew Brees (27), Dan Marino (26) and Kurt Warner (23) had more in their first 150 games.
ALL-PURPOSE: Christian McCaffrey, who has 1,244 scrimmage yards and 13 touchdowns this season, is the first player since Priest Holmes in 2002 with at least 1,200 scrimmage yards and 13 touchdowns in their team's first eight games of a season. McCaffrey has six games with at least 150 scrimmage yards and a touchdown, joining Jim Brown (1963) as the only players with six such performances in their team's first eight games of a season in NFL history.
PROLIFIC RECEIVER: Mike Thomas needs six receptions in New Orleans' game against Atlanta to become the fastest player to reach 400 receptions in league history. Thomas has played 55 games. Odell Beckham Jr. reached 400 in 61 games, the fastest to do so far.
PACK SACK ATTACK: The Packers are the only team with two players who have at least eight sacks. Za'Darius Smith (8.5 sacks) and Preston Smith (eight) lead the way.
ELITE COMPANY: Chiefs receiver Tyreek Hill became the sixth player in NFL history to record at least 20 touchdowns of at least 40 yards in his first four seasons. The other five players are in the Pro Football Hall of Fame: Bob Hayes (24 TDs), Randy Moss (23), Jerry Rice (21), Lance Alworth (20) and Gale Sayers (20).
