
# The £1.3m Rightmove house leaving everybody on Twitter feeling 'ill' as pictures of inside go viral

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:39:10+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Luke Matthews, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/midlands-news/13m-rightmove-house-leaving-everybody-17190560)

A five-bedroom detached home listed on Rightmove has left those viewing it "ill" - and you may feel the same after seeing these images.
The property, which is situated in Middlesex, will set prospective house buyers back a hefty sum.
The £1.3 million home was shared by a Twitter user, and has set social media alight ever since the images surfaced.
Taking to the social media platform, Toby Davies wrote: "Thinking about buying this house, but I'm not sure it has enough plug sockets."
You're probably wondering what he means - especially when you learn his tweet went viral, with more than 4,000 likes and 1,400 retweets.
Mirror Online reports as photos of the home move from the stunning exterior, to the dreamy kitchen and then to the living area, Toby's sarcastic concerns become very apparent.
Every wall appears to be absolutely plastered in sockets. Sockets stacked on top of one another, sockets halfway up the walls and sockets running underneath the windows.
With the owners clearly having never laid eyes on a multi-plug adapter, people were left completely baffled as to what all the outlets were possibly used for.
 
Questions include 'were they running the CIA from the front room?' and 'was this an electrician's training centre at one point?'.
The online description fails to address quite why there are so many sockets.
