
# The Stephen Robinson compensation fee Hearts must pay to get Motherwell boss revealed

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Scott McDermott, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/scott-mcdermott/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/stephen-robinson-compensation-fee-hearts-20799391)

Hearts will have to pay Motherwell £120,000 to snare top managerial target Stephen Robinson.
MailSport understands the Fir Park boss is Ann Budge’s first choice to replace Craig Levein.
But she’ll have to cough up a six-figure sum for the 44-year-old, whose Well contact runs to 2022.
Budge held a board meeting on Friday and was backed by the Tynecastle hierarchy in putting Robinson at the top of their wanted list.
She will sift through a number of applications for the job but the Northern Irishman is the leading candidate.
He has Well sitting third in the Premiership and has done a terrific job with limited resources. Levein’s assistant Austin MacPhee will take charge of Hearts for today’s Betfred Cup semi-final against Rangers at Hampden.
He’s in the mix to get the job permanently, as is club legend John Robertson, who is in charge at Inverness.
Jack Ross is also in contention, although we understand no contact has been made with the former St Mirren and Sunderland gaffer.
And bookies Sky Bet slashed odds on Manchester United legend Roy Keane taking over.
But Robinson – who has worked alongside MacPhee in the Northern Ireland coaching set-up – is the frontrunner.
Well are braced for an approach for their gaffer but will fight to keep him by demanding about £120,000 in compensation.
Robinson’s side beat Livingston 2-1 yesterday and he said afterwards: “I don’t need to deal with the speculation.
“I am just delighted we are third in the league. I’m going to enjoy my Saturday night.”
