
# ‘Co-operate with me or I’ll kill your hubby’

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Praveen Kumar**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/cover-story/co-operate-with-me-or-ill-kill-your-hubby/articleshow/71843999.cms)

He works as a marketing executive; she’s a receptionist at a multi-national company. They got to know each other when they started working in the same private firm in Bengaluru in 2017. Both got along and she even introduced his friend to her husband; he would come over during special days and functions ate her house. So much so that the woman even borrowed Rs 2 lakh from the man. It was then that the true nature of the 40-year-old marketing executive, identified as Vivesh, was revealed. He had been eyeing the woman, 30-year-old Nethra Bai, and started pestering her for the money. She had returned half the amount; for the remaining amount, Vivesh told her she had to do him a favour and he would forget about the loan. You can guess what he wanted. But that’s not the only twist in the story – Vivesh roped in his nephew, 21-year-old Suman, and decided to kidnap the woman’s husband, Bhagyavantha (34), in order to force the woman to sleep with him. Vivesh and Suman are now in jail. The two had reportedly kidnapped Bhagyavantha from the Konadasapura bus stop on the Katamnalluru-Kadugodi Road in Avalahalli on Tuesday around 8.30 pm. “Since the last three months, Vivesh is alleged to have started harassing her to ‘co-operate’ with him to which she will not have to pay the remaining amount. He even harassed her to stop working and to be with him. When she refused, he is alleged to have kept calling her and threatened to harm her husband and parents. Unable to bear his harassment, she reportedly quit the job and started working in another private firm on the Old Madras Road,” said an officer based on the statements of the woman.
.
Within a month of borrowing the money, Nethra Bai returned half the amount by pledging her gold ornaments. But the pestering didn’t stop. On the day of incident, when she was returning home, her husband called her and said that Vivesh had come home and was creating ruckus over the pending amount. Nethra Bai took an auto and got down near the Konadasapura bus stop – and she saw that Vivesh along with a few others were holding her husband captive. “She alleged that Vivesh started fighting with her and asked her to stay with him. He gave her a choice – either return the money immediately or live with him and leave her husband. When she refused and asked him to let her husband go, Vivesh and his associates bundled him into a car and sped off,” the officer said. Nethra Bai then called a few relatives and went looking for her husband hoping that Vivesh would have dropped him off somewhere. Just then, she received a call on the mobile – it was Vivesh and he was desperate. He said he would kill her husband. “She immediately contacted the police. The details of the car registration number and the phone numbers of the accused and her husband helped us solve the case and rescue the victim. The role of Vivesh’s nephew was to drive the car in which the alleged abduction happened,” the officer added. A case of kidnapping or abduction in order to murder (IPC 364) and criminal intimidation (IPC 506) has been registered against the accused and the Avalahalli police are investigating the matter.
