
# Stocks hit new highs as China, U.S. said to agree to tariff rollback

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:45:00+00:00**

Author: **Claire Ballentine and Vildana Hajric**

Original: [BNN](https://www.bnnbloomberg.ca/u-s-stocks-hit-new-highs-as-china-trade-tensions-ease-on-tariff-rollback-1.1344650)

Equities climbed to new highs after reports that China and the U.S. have agreed to roll back tariffs on each other’s goods in phases as they work toward a trade deal. Ten-year Treasury yields hit a 14-week high on their biggest gain since 2016, while gold declined the most in six weeks.
The S&P 500 Index rose to a record Thursday, with tech and financial sectors leading the charge, after a U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that a rollback agreement would be part of a phase-one agreement. China is also reportedly studying the removal of curbs on U.S. poultry imports.
Shares advanced in Hong Kong and China’s yuan strengthened offshore, while the Stoxx Europe 600 advanced. West Texas crude futures rose above US$57 a barrel in New York. The pound weakened after two Bank of England policy makers unexpectedly voted for an interest-rate cut. European sovereign bonds declined.
Risk appetite is picking up as the latest reports of progress on trade helped counter earlier reports that a preliminary accord may not happen this month as the two sides continued to wrangle over a location to sign it. With economic indicators showing signs of stabilization, investors will now be looking for further evidence that a global recession can be avoided.
“At the very least, we can start to call it less bad to constructive, so it’s positive for the markets in general,” said Dan Russo, chief market strategist at Chaikin Analytics. “Obviously, until we get a done deal, there can be volatility around trade headlines. It seems like the U.S.-China trade news now is surprising to the upside, which is a tailwind to the markets.”
Here are some key events coming up this week:
• Earnings are due Thursday after the close from Walt Disney Co.• The USDA World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates Report for November comes out Friday.
These are the main moves in markets:

        Stocks
      
• The S&P 500 Index advanced 0.5 per cent to 3,093.66 as of 12:42 p.m. New York time, the highest on record.
• The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.4 per cent to 406.56, reaching the highest in more than four years on its fifth consecutive advance.
• Germany’s DAX Index increased 0.8 per cent to 13,289.46, hitting the highest in more than 21 months with its fifth consecutive advance.
• The MSCI Emerging Market Index climbed 0.6 per cent to 1,075.37, the highest in about six months.

        Currencies
      
• The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index gained 0.1 per cent to 1,202.24, the highest in more than three weeks.
• The euro fell 0.2 per cent to US$1.1042, the weakest in more than three weeks.
• The British pound decreased 0.3 per cent to US$1.2821, the weakest in more than three weeks.
• The Japanese yen depreciated 0.5 per cent to 109.48 per U.S. dollar, the weakest in more than five months.
• The offshore yuan appreciated 0.8 per cent to 6.9551 per U.S. dollar, the strongest in 14 weeks on the largest climb in more than 12 weeks.

        Bonds
      
• The yield on 10-year Treasuries jumped 14 basis points to 1.96 per cent, the highest in 14 weeks on the biggest surge in about three years.
• The yield on two-year Treasuries climbed 10 basis points to 1.70 per cent, the highest in seven weeks on the largest increase in more than four months.
• Germany’s 10-year yield climbed 10 basis points to -0.23 per cent, the highest in almost four months on the biggest surge in more than 17 months.
• Britain’s 10-year yield gained eight basis points to 0.793 per cent, the highest in more than 16 weeks on the largest gain in almost four weeks.

        Commodities
      
• West Texas Intermediate crude advanced 2.1 per cent to US$57.53 a barrel, the highest in more than six weeks.
• Gold depreciated 1.8 per cent to US$1,464.28 an ounce, the weakest in more than three months on the largest drop in six weeks.

        --With assistance from Adam Haigh, Andreea Papuc, Elena Popina, Cecile Vannucci and Todd White.
      
