
# Andre Gomes discharged from hospital after successful surgery

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:51:13+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Murtagh, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jacob-murtagh/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-andre-gomes-discharged-hospital-20816946)

Everton star Andre Gomes has been discharged from hospital after undergoing surgery on his fractured ankle.
Gomes suffered the sickening injury in Sunday's 1-1 draw with Tottenham at Goodison Park after a challenge from Son Heung-min, who was shown a red card by referee Martin Atkinson.
The 26-year-old went under the knife at a hospital in Liverpool on Monday and is expected to make a full recovery.
An Everton statement read: "Following a successful operation yesterday, Andre Gomes has now been discharged from hospital and will continue his rehabilitation under the care of our medical team."
Everton striker Cenk Tosun admits he did not enjoy his first Premier League goal of the season because of the horrific injury suffered by team-mate Gomes.
The Turkey international was one of the players comforting Gomes as he lay in agony on the Goodison Park pitch having sustained a dislocated fracture of his right ankle.
Most players were visibly distressed by the injury but had to compose themselves to finish the game and, in the eighth minute of 12 added on for Gomes' treatment, Tosun equalised to make it 1-1 - a goal the former Besiktas forward dedicated to his stricken team-mate.
"When he went off, I just tried to score for him," said Tosun, whose last Toffees goal coincidentally came against Spurs on the final day of last season.
"I was waiting such a long time for this goal and I could not even enjoy it. This goal is for him, for sure.
"We are good friends. We sit at the same table together at Finch Farm and he always helps me when we are on the pitch together too.
"It will be a tough time for Andre but sometimes in football, these injuries happen.
"I just hope and pray he comes back stronger in six months after his surgery. We will give him the motivation he needs.
"Everyone is just so sad. We could not even celebrate our point. It was a fair point and we deserved it."
