
# Boiler Room is being broadcast live across the globe from Plymouth

Published at: **2019-11-07T23:07:38+00:00**

Author: **Sarah Waddington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/whats-on/music-nightlife/boiler-room-being-broadcast-live-3514531)

This Saturday Plymouth will be immortalised on Boiler Room and across the world to 3.2 million people.
At the weekend Barbican live music venue Hanging Gardens is hosting another Boiler Room event, only this time they are broadcasting it live from the Plymouth University Main Hall, putting the city on the biggest map for music in the contemporary world.
Event manager Simon Scullion, along with his business partner David Green - both long-standing members of Plymouth’s music scene - say the event is a "telling sign that Plymouth's music scene is alive and kicking".
Simon, who helped open Hanging Gardens in summer 2018 after the success of city centre venue The Factory, added this is "hands down one of the most important events" to happen for electronic music in Plymouth.
He said: "On November 9 we are bringing the biggest  and most globally recognised brand in electronic music, Boiler Room to our own city of Plymouth, as we broadcast our home city to their 3.2 million followers across the globe for a night of House, Acid and Techno, live from the Plymouth University Main Hall.
"Boiler Room week in week out travel the world showcasing the best electronic artists in cities that are renowned for having thriving musical scenes. For this event to even be possible to happen in Plymouth is an amazing thing in itself for our city and certainly a telling sign that not only is our music scene alive and kicking, but that the UK does not stop at Bristol as so many typically think.
"Having already done a non-broadcast Boiler Room event at our own venue we wanted to take the step up and put Plymouth firmly on the musical map across the world on the biggest possible platform by doing a fully broadcasted event. The broadcast will be archived for all to see after the event and forever available online.
"Due to the sheer size of putting this event on we have had to go to a bigger, one room venue as opposed to using our own, so we will be using the Plymouth University Main Hall, which we will be installing full decor and visual production, as well as putting the performing artists directly in the centre of the room for an authentic Boiler Room experience.
"Musically we have a range of headline acts from across the world. With Finnish DJ IDA, Leeds’ Freakenstein [Tristan da Cunha], Berlin based Iron Curtis, flying in Ceephax Acid Crew from Belgium and also Plymouth’s own legendary DJ and music scene contributor Mitch, formally of Bigga Records. Performances will be a range of DJ sets using both vinyl and CDJs, as well as a full live performance from Ceephax Acid Crew using a mixture of vintage musical hardware.
"In terms of electronic music this is hands down one of the most important events to happen in Plymouth and we are absolutely delighted to be involved in making it happen.
"Both myself and my business partner David Green are long standing members of Plymouth’s music scene and being able to make this happen is quite the dream for both of us. We are incredibly passionate about pushing Plymouth and making stuff happen here and for us this is quite simply the biggest thing we could put on."
