
# Kim Kardashian hints at big fitness plans after gaining more than a stone

Published at: **2019-11-04T02:25:06+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/kim-kardashian-hints-big-fitness-20805931)

Kim Kardashian says she has put on 18 pounds - more than a stone - in the past year.
She opened up about her weight gain in a video on her Instagram Story and she blames her eating for the issue.
Kim uploaded the clip as she was about to hit the gym with her trainer Melissa Alcantara before they were heading out to dinner.
She hinted that she is ready to slim down again but with Christmas coming, the 39-year-old will have to watch what she eats over the next few months.
"OK, so we're doing a night workout before my dinner, which I never do with this one [Alcantara], but I figured we have to get into it at some point," Kim said.
"Yeah, I mean, sometimes we fall off and sometimes you really gotta get it together and this is one of my fallen off times where I am, I think, 18 pounds up from what I was about a year ago, a year and a half ago.
"To feel good, I just want to get it like, a really good goal weight and so that means working out at all costs," she added.
"It's my eating. I work out but it's like, my eating.
"But Melissa and I have a major goal for by the time I'm 40."
Maybe she should have a chat with her brother and find out what his secret is.
Rob Kardashian appears to have undergone a body transformation after making his first public appearance in 17 months.
He showed off a slimmed down figure as he posed on Instagram beside his mother Kris Jenner for Halloween .
Rob, 32, went dressed as a troll while Kris, 63, looked striking in her Dia De Los Muertos outfit - including a full face of make-up.
But all eyes were on Rob who emerged that night after not being seen publicly in almost two years.
Rob, who has shunned the limelight unlike his famous sisters, stepped out to attend a star-studded Halloween party at the Los Angeles nightspot Deliah.
The dad, who shares daughter Dream with ex Black Chyna, has been described as becoming 'very introverted' by his sister Khloe in the past and spoken himself about issues with his weight.
Khloe told Wonderwall in 2015: "I just feel, especially over the last year, Rob has become very introverted and has a kind of social anxiety.
“He’s definitely not at his happiest place that he once was, and I know he can get to that happy place and he will."
The year before Rob pulled out of Kim Kardashian's wedding to Kanye West at the last minute.
"I was doing my suit fittings in Paris right before the wedding and I just wasn’t comfortable," he told People. "I’m 6’1″ and at my most I probably weighed 300 lbs."
