
# 'Rampant' - how the Birmingham City players rated in controversial Cardiff City defeat

Published at: **2019-11-03T07:46:00+00:00**

Author: **Brian Dick, https://www.facebook.com/blueswriterbriandick/?fref=ts**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/birmingham-city-player-ratings-cardiff-17191109)

Birmingham City paid for their wastefulness as they lost to a Joe Ralls hat-trick and a deeply controversial refereeing performance from Andrew Madley.
Kristian  Pedersen and Ivan Sunjic scored on a stormy afternoon - but Ralls hit three, including two penalties, and Curtis Nelson one.
Here’s how Pep Clotet’s players rated. STARTING FORMATION 4-4-2 CAMP 5 Went the wrong way on the penalty, pushed Flint’s point-blank header back into traffic for the second, tipped over from Hoilett shortly after. Easily beaten for Ralls’ second and his third, from the spot. COLIN 7 Absolutely rampant in the opening half hour as he and Crowley terrorised Joe Bennett. Tried to inspire something as Blues ended up chasing the game too. Not his day. DEAN 5.5 Looked on the stretch a couple of times in the first half, playing on a greasy surface. Coped well enough though. Beaten by Nelson for a disallowed goal, which looked a marginal call. Sent off late on having tried to engineer something going forward too. His blood must have been boiling.
ROBERTS 6 Like all the defenders there were times when he looked a little unsteady on a difficult playing surface - but did reasonably well. One rash foray forward and mis-placed pass nearly left Blues horribly-exposed early in the second half.
PEDERSEN 6.5 Second goal  in as many games - and third of the season. Looked very inventive going forward and kept things nailed down at the back in the opening period. Had a penalty shout in the second half and seemed to be struggling with his footing as the rain fell - and Mendez-Laing scooted round him for the third. CROWLEY 7 Unplayable in the opening exchanges, pulling the strings like a master puppeteer. Should have scored from Colin’s pull-back, though. Tried so hard in the second half to invent something but couldn’t find the right delivery.
SUNJIC 7.5 Picked up a booking for a cynical pull back but flew around midfield trying to drag  his team back  into proceedings. Vital last-man tackle as the game broke up and Mendez-Laing threatened to go clear and a clinical finish for his second of the season.
BELLINGHAM 6 Started in the engineroom for the fifth game in succession and this was a hot game that will prove a valuable learning experience. Sometimes caught in possession,  other times he linked play together well. Rightly subbed with a quarter of an hour to go.
VILLALBA 6.5 Beautiful cross for the Pedersen goal and for half an hour linked up with Mrabti and Crowley in mesmerising fashion. Subsequent dead ball delivery not as high standard and started snatching at shots as Blues needed something. Worked his tiny socks off though. MRABTI 7 His best game of the season, the Swede linked up well with the ‘false wingers’ in a mesmeric first half. Should have ended with an assist for setting up Crowley and arguably a goal for a super turn just after the hour. Subbed in the 65th minute. JUTKIEWICZ 5.5 Involved in yet another running battle with a Championship defence. Clearly frustrated at the way the game was refereed. Forced one good save from Etheridge but Blues just couldn’t find him often enough.
This is your round up of all things Birmingham City; the one-stop shop that will keep you updated on the latest goings on at the club and beyond.
Transfers, injuries, match-days and managers, we’ve got you covered.
We’ll be bringing the very latest on the Blues throughout the week and around the clock.
Make sure you keep yourself updated with our handy daily catch up...
 

        For all your latest BCFC news, opinion, analysis and transfer gossip, click here
      
You can follow our Blues reporter Brian Dick on Twitter, and his email address is Brian.Dick@reachplc.com
SUBSTITUTES MAGHOMA (for Mrabti, 65) 5.5 Couldn’t find the  necessary delivery GIMENEZ (for Bellingham, 69) 5 Tired hard but to  little effect BAILEY (for Crowley, 81) Not used: Trueman, Harding, Clarke-Salter, Davis OPPOSITION CARDIFF (4-1-4-1) Etheridge; Peltier, Flint, Nelson (Bamba 86), Bennett; Pack; Hoilett (Bogle, 75), Ralls, Bacuna, Mendez-Laing (Paterson 80); Ward. Not used: Smithies, Vaulks, Murphy, Tomlin GOALS CARDIFF: Ralls (30 pen, 69, 90+3 pen), Nelson (38) BLUES: Pedersen (3), Sunjic (89)   THE REF: Andy Madley ATTENDANCE: 23,778 NEXT UP: Fulham (h), Saturday, November 9, 3pm kick-off
