
# Gangs are smuggling containers of dogs instead of drugs due to weak port security

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:42:16+00:00**

Author: **Karen Rockett**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/gangs-smuggling-containers-dogs-instead-20795447)

Evil gangs are cashing in on poor port security to smuggle in c­ontainers full of ­puppies.
MPs, vets and animal charities joined forces this week to demand a crackdown on the trade and a change to the way we buy our pets.
The Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee session also ­revealed that criminals are choosing to smuggle dogs over drugs as it is low risk but high profit.
RSPCA Chief Inspector Briggs said: “We know that smugglers will bring in puppies before 5am because they know they can avoid checks at the ports and borders. These are dogs deliberately brought in with no paperwork at all.
“No one organisation can tackle this problem on its own. These puppies are a commodity – they’re being trafficked across Europe.”
As part of an inquiry into the terrible trade, there were also calls for an ­increase to the maximum jail sentence for animal abusers to five years.
Lib Dem MP Angela Smith said: “We’re not talking about puppy ­smuggling here – we’re talking about puppy ­trafficking. It’s absolutely evil.”
Chief Inspector Briggs added: “The sort of people involved in this are ­involved in other crimes too. They’ve got no regard for the puppies and no regard for anyone else.
“We need to change consumer habits because it’s too easy to buy a dog.
“The aim is to try and change the attitude that you don’t want to buy a dog as cheaply as possible. What you want is quality – just like you do with any other domestic items you buy.”
No records are kept on dogs who arrive with no ­passports so there are no stats on how big the problem is.
The committee also called for a ­registration scheme for anyone selling puppies and better training for border staff. Increasing the minimum age pups are allowed to be imported from 15 weeks to 24 weeks could also help.
RSPCA boss David Bowles said: “ Brexit could provide us with an ­opportunity to tackle this problem.
“It is too easy for smugglers to avoid detection – as easily as hiding ­shipments of puppies behind cargo.”
