
# Co Down man Eamonn Harrison (22) faces manslaughter charges over Essex lorry deaths

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/02/news/co-down-man-eamonn-harrison-22-faces-manslaughter-charges-over-essex-lorry-deaths-1754497/)

A 22-YEAR-OLD man has become the second person from Northern Ireland to face manslaughter charges over the deaths of 39 people found in a lorry container in Essex.
Eamonn Harrison, from Mayobridge in Co Down, appeared before the High Court in Dublin yesterday morning.
CCTV has allegedly identified him as the driver of the lorry which carried the refrigerated container to the Belgian port of Zeebrugge last week before it was transported to Essex, the court heard.
Mr Harrison appeared before the court after he was arrested on a European Arrest Warrant.
Essex Police has begun extradition proceedings to bring Mr Harrison from the Republic to the UK to face the charges.
Garda sergeant Jim Kirwan told the court yesterday that there are 41 offences in the warrant for Mr Harrison.
They include 39 manslaughter charges, conspiracy to commit human trafficking and conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration.
He was remanded to Cloverhill Prison in Dublin until November 11.
Mr Harrison has been in custody since he was arrested at Dublin Port on Saturday of last week.
He appeared in court yesterday wearing glasses, a grey t-shirt, grey tracksuit bottoms and trainers.
Outlining the offences facing Mr Harrison, Sgt Kirwan said the 22-year-old had been identified as the driver of the lorry which was used to deliver the trailer unit to Zeebrugge.
"CCTV, taken several hours before at a truck stop in Veurne, Belgium shows Eamonn Harrison to be the driver of the lorry," he said.
"That lorry deposited the trailer unit at Zeebrugge for its onward transmission to Purfleet, Essex.
"A shipping notice provided at Zeebrugge when the tractor unit arrived at the gate was signed in the name 'Eamonn Harrison'.
"Eamonn Harrison travelled back to Ireland in the lorry via a ferry from Cherbourg, France."
Mr Justice Donald Binchy put the case for mention on November 11.
He also set a hearing date of November 21.
Mr Justice Binchy informed Mr Harrison of his rights and told him that he is entitled to voluntarily surrender himself to the UK authorities between now and the hearing date.
The court heard that Mr Harrison is currently on remand in custody over separate offences that will be heard before Cloverhill District Court in Dublin on November 7.
In a statement, Essex Police said: "A European Arrest Warrant has been executed in Dublin today, Friday November 1, in connection with the Essex Police investigation in to the deaths of 39 people who were found in a lorry trailer in Grays last week".
It added: "Essex Police has started extradition proceedings to bring him to the UK."
It was also formally confirmed during yesterday's hearing that lorry driver Mo Robinson, from Laurelvale in Co Armagh, who has already appeared in court in England charged in connection with the 39 deaths, was found beside the container following a call to paramedics last week.
The court heard that the ambulance service received a call in the early hours of October 23 that 25 migrants found in the back of a lorry container were not breathing.
When police attended the scene, the lorry driver was "standing at the back of the trailer", the High Court heard.
He was later identified as Maurice 'Mo' Robinson.
