
# Sniping from sidelines has reduced abortion debate to slanging match

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:59:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/opinion/letterstotheeditor/2019/11/05/news/sniping-from-sidelines-has-reduced-abortion-debate-to-slanging-match-1755919/)

Space does not permit me to respond to the 10 questions raised in Dermot McNally’s letter – ‘Choice is a relative concept that is limited by rights of other’ (October 21).However, it is incumbent on me to defend false accusations. It was Evelyn Beatrice Hall who penned the statement in her Friends of Voltaire: “I don’t agree with what you say, but I will defend until death your right to say it.”This statement has resonance in the abortion debate because it relates to Voltaire’s conviction on the freedom of speech. My letters have consistently upheld and supported those who hold strong and justifiable opinions on both sides of the argument.
I have condemned those who abuse abortion for selfish reasons as they are an insult to the just cause of healthcare reform so urgently required to alleviate the anguish of those in dire need.The deliberate circumvention of the strict rules regarding legitimate termination  serves only to give credence to acerbic comments like those of Mr McNally, “that abortion has become a substitution for contraception”.
Those, from both sides, who sneer and snipe from the sidelines, have at times reduced the debate to a slanging match, each smugly claiming the moral high ground.
There is no moral high ground in this emotive and complex subject. Personal reasons have shaped my own determination on the matter but aided by the medical and legal input and supplemented (I like to think) with honest appraisal.Intellectual honesty is the core of science and should be at the heart of any debate worthy of the name.
Mr McNally suggests I should seek a Nobel nomination (obviously sarcasm as I am sure he knows self-nomination is inadmissible) because I nvoked evolution to prove that we evolved by miniscule  adaptations over huge periods of time from he African Ape.This is scientific fact, knowledge of which does not require entry to the pantheon of Nobel Prize winners.
Mr McNally derides human lights, evolution, God, the accumulation of medical and legal expertise and choice. In so doing he has abandoned any pretence of intellectual honesty. Like everyone he is entitled to his opinion but noble causes are not won by ignoble discourse.
DANNY TREACYTemplepatrick, Co Antrim
 

        Young people should speak out if they are worried about their exams
      
This is a very challenging time for children throughout Northern Ireland who are preparing to sit their transfer tests this month.
The pressure can be stressful for both children and parents but Childline is here to offer advice and support.
In 2018/19, Childline’s bases at Foyle and Belfast in Northern Ireland delivered 153 counselling sessions with children and teenagers apprehensive about their grades – rising by more than 55% since 2017/18.
Young people may be worried about how they will perform in their exams. They may also be concerned about disappointing their parents; trying their best and still failing and having excessive workloads.
Childline is advising young people to make sure they have regular breaks from revising, do some exercise, go to bed at a reasonable time and think positively.
It’s also important to remember that everyone’s different so we would advise children not to compare themselves to their friends and remember, exams don’t last forever.
For parents and carers – the signs of stress could include a child struggling to sleep, having negative thoughts about the future, feeling unwell a lot, not eating, thinking or worrying about the upcoming exams, not being able to enjoy things anymore.
If you feel a child is struggling our message is not to place them under unnecessary pressure to gain certain grades.
Childline is urging all young people to speak out if they are worried about their exams.
Children can call Childline on 0800 11 11 or www.childline.org.uk. Adults can contact the NSPCC helpline on 0808 800 5000, or email help@nspcc.org.uk.
MAIREAD MONDSChildline manager, Northern Ireland
 

        Alliance proud to advocate for a united community
      
In relation to the recent letter from Gareth Brown (October 22), relating to Alliance’s use of the term united community, it appears the author has stumbled upon the party’s entire purpose.
Alliance’s aim is healing the rifts in our society and making this region deliver for everyone, irrespective of your political outlook.That’s for unionists, nationalists and the rapidly growing number of people who are non-aligned when it comes to the constitutional question.
In fact, Gareth’s statement about there being some people who believe in Irish unity and some people who believe in the union but who also believe in bringing people in Northern Ireland closer together, is the mission statement of Alliance.
Take one look at our party and you will see one in which people have their own position on the constitution but who want to work together on the issues which matter to us all.Some of those people who would prefer Northern Ireland remain within the UK, some would prefer a united Ireland and some – increasingly making their voices heard – have no view whatsoever.
Hence the term united community, a label Alliance is proud to continue advocating for, and which is a statement of our own values and not an attack on anyone else.
CLLR KATE NICHOLLAlliance, South Belfast
 

        Sinn Féin has betrayed Irish people
      
SINN Féin has stood aside and, against the will of the people, allowed the British government to bring laws into Northern Ireland that will cause the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Irish children.
No proper thinking Irishman or woman should ever vote for them again.
DR OWEN GALLAGHERGlenavy, Co Antrim
 

        Bias is as bias goes
      
ALAS a measure of media bias is detectable in the abortion debate. On one side the self-styled title‘pro-choice’ is adopted as handy euphemism for‘pro-abortion’. Why? On the other side, however, the self-styled title ‘pro-life’ is avoided in favour of‘anti-abortion.Bias is as Bias goes.
J A BARNWELLDublin 9
