
# 7 Facts And 1 Lie About Apple AirPods Pro

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Anthony Karcz**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/anthonykarcz/2019/10/31/7-facts-and-1-lie-about-apple-airpods-pro/)

Update 11/1/19: Corrected to note that ANC can be enabled with just one AirPod.AirPods Pro are the newest, hottest Apple accessory right now and for good reason. Despite the fact they cost nearly $100 more than standard AirPods, they're the first Apple earbuds to feature active noise cancellation (ANC), an absolute necessity for office dwellers and urban commuters. 
So how do you get them set up? How do figure out which tip is best? How do you change out the tips? I’m here to lay out some facts and bust one myth.
In typical Apple fashion, they save the best tricks for their own hardware. With third-party Bluetooth headphones, you go into the Settings app and choose your new hardware from a list. With AirPods Pro, as soon as you open the case near your iPhone (upgraded to at least iOS 13.2), you'll see an animated graphic of the case opening. After confirming you want to pair with your current device, it gives you a quick animated tutorial of the new features. All in all it takes about 60 seconds and you only have to press a single button. 
If you haven't set up Announce Messages with Siri yet (which you haven't if these are your first AirPods or you hadn't upgraded to iOS 13.2 yet), the setup animation will let you do so with a single press during setup. Just be warned, the implementation is finicky. If you have Messages open on your Mac or you're looking at an iPhone or iPad when a message comes in, the feature doesn't activate. It's really only for those times when you're not looking at a screen. 
If you only have one AirPod Pro in your ear, the noise cancellation feature won't activate. When you take one out, your current media will pause and the other AirPod will switch to Transparency mode (which filters in outside noise). But it doesn’t have to be that way. Go to Settings > Accessibility > Airpods and select Noise Cancellation with One AirPod to enable single AirPod ANC.
Apple wants you to wear your new AirPods Pro all day long...or at least for four hours at a time at which point you'll have to drop them into the wireless charging case for a battery boost. The problem is that their ANC makes having a conversation practically impossible unless the other person is shouting. Transparency mode (activated with a press and hold of the AirPod stem) lets you hold a conversation at a normal volume without having to take out your AirPods. 
The first time I popped in my AirPods Pro was when my family was off to school and work and it was just me and the cat. There were no mowers outside, no traffic hum — my house was as quiet as it gets. Or so I thought. As soon as the second AirPod Pro was in, I was treated to a warm blanket of soft silence. There was none of the pressure that I sometimes associate with ANC headphones, just a distinct absence of noise. The whoosh of the air conditioner, the whir of my Dyson Cool, the hum of the pool pump outside — it was all eliminated, leaving me with space to enjoy what I wanted on my phone...or just the silence itself. 
No, really. You might be a small in every other earbud you've ever tried, but Apple's goal here is all-day wearability. For that to happen, the tips can't be too big or they'll be uncomfortable. Nor can they be too small, because they'll let outside noise leak in, cancelling out the ANC feature.
Go to Settings > Bluetooth and click the information icon for your AirPods Pro. Then click Ear Tip Fit Test. Follow the steps to have your iPhone play a quick music clip which it then uses to determine whether or not you have a good seal. And don't worry about trying new tips, changing them out is easier than any earbuds I've ever used. A hard yank and they pop right off. They're easily reinstalled by aligning them vertically on the AirPod and pushing down, clicking right into place. 
If ANC is bugging you and Transparency mode doesn't do it for you either, you can easily turn both off in the Control Center. With your AirPods active, press and hold the volume slider in the Control Center (there will be a glyph that shows the AirPods Pro). On the next screen, you can switch manually between the three available modes: Noise Cancellation, Off, and Transparency. Choose Off and you'll have the superior sound quality of the AirPods Pro, just without the extra environmental tweaking. 
AirPods are the most recognizable wireless earbuds on the planet. So when people heard about the new shape and the shorter stalks, there was concern that they wouldn't evoke the same kind of brand recognition. Shallow, maybe, but there's a reason there are so many AirPod knockoffs out there — people want to be seen wearing them. 
I walked in to my daughter's room last night, listening to a conference call on my AirPods Pro, and before I could even ask if she was ready for bed, she was asking me with astonishment "Are those AirPods?" 
So fear not - middle schoolers are the most brand-conscious consumers on the planet. If they can recognize the AirPods Pro on sight, then Apple's mission is accomplished. 
