
# Ceballos apologises to Arsenal fans: 'I will never stop failing for not trying'

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:58:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sport](https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/EnglishPremiership/ceballos-apologises-to-arsenal-fans-i-will-never-stop-failing-for-not-trying-20191101)

Cape Town - Arsenal midfielder Dani Ceballos wants to repay the faith shown in him after he missed a penalty against Liverpool on Wednesday night.
The Gunners crashed out of the Carabao Cup after a penalty shootout at Anfield, with Ceballos the only man to miss on Merseyside.
The two English giants had earlier played out a thrilling 5-5 draw during the 90 minutes with Arsenal twice losing a two-goal lead against Jurgen Klopp's men.
Lucas Torreira, Gabriel Martinelli, Ainsley Maitland-Niles and Joe Willock all scored inside the 90 minutes for the visitors.
However, two efforts from Divock Origi ensured Liverpool got the chance to progress into the quarter-finals on penalties.
Liverpool keeper Caoimhin Kelleher saved Ceballos' strike to ensure the Reds won 5-4 in the shootout.
Arsenal boss Unai Emery remains under intense pressure but Mesut Ozil's fabulous performance will have given him some hope after a slow start to the season.
The Gunners have now won just two of their last five matches, and Ceballos took to Twitter to apologise for his part in the defeat.
He tweeted:"I will never stop failing for not trying. I will never hide for fearing a failure. If I would have today the opportunity, I would assume the responsibility without a doubt. I am sorry for my supporters, but I want you to know that I will give my soul for the team."
The playmaker will be hoping his error is not enough for him to lose his place in the team for Saturday’s meeting with Wolves at the Emirates Stadium.
He has made 10 appearances since joining on a season-long loan deal from Real Madrid but reports also claim the 23-year-old would like to join on a permanent basis in the summer.
Ceballos could now compete with Ozil for the number 10 role after Emery confirmed the former Germany international is still part of his plans.
