
# Swae Lee Shares What He Loves Most About Touring With Post Malone

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Isis Briones**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/isisbriones/2019/11/05/swae-lee-post-malone-tour-asos-edit/)

It has been a busy year for Swae Lee and his tour mate Post Malone. Kicking things off in Tacoma, Washington, the duo has been on the road since early September. Even though they’ll be wrapping up the Runaway tour by Thanksgiving next month, their collaboration has only inspired Swae to do more. Recently, he teamed up with the popular British online retailer ASOS to create his own uniquely curated Style Edit that showcases his favorite pieces from the brand. The rapper and singer highlighted over one hundred different items, which ranged from skinny sequined red tuxedos to a standout double breasted faux fur leopard print peacoat. He also couldn’t help throwing in some shiny accessories into the mix including layered neck chains, a metallic chest harness bag, and of course, some trendy footwear.
Overall, it’s a fresh shopping list made for the fall and winter season that will certainly take any closet to the next level. Given the endless pages of products on ASOS, calling styles out with a trendsetter people trust is a great way to help customers better navigate the site. Prior to Swae, the company showcased the edits of other fashion stars such as singer Madison Beer and basketball player Ovie Soko.
Fingers crossed there are more collaborations to come, but until then, let Swae give your closet life with his Forbes interview below. He chatted all things style, music, and who takes care of his monkey while he’s gone.

        Isis Briones: Since it keeps getting colder outside, let’s talk fall footwear. What’s your secret to buying the perfect boot?
      
Swae Lee: “My secret to buying the perfect fall boot is you can't get one that's too beat up or too wide. It also has to be a nice tan color. Yeah, a brown color and it can’t be too high top either. I say it’s fine to rock a high top, but it can’t be too high or too low. A mid-top boot on the wider end is the way to go. If you’re dressing up for something, I recommend the grey ones with the neon green trim from ASOS.”

        IB: Out of everything from your style edit, which item did you gravitate to the most?
      
SL: “My favorite item from the ASOS Edit was the Snakeskin pant because they showed off my fit figure.”

        IB: How about life with Post Malone, what has been the best part of being on tour with him?
      
SL: “We were bowling and we had a good time in Toronto and we were just partying with the homies afterwards. The city was blowing up. We had Toronto, we had Canada going up, but everyday is really super fun and super action-packed.”

        IB: Who takes care of your animals when you’re away?
      
SL: “My animals are all grown right now, so I taught them how to take care of themselves actually. They know how to get their own food and order Postmates. No, I’m kidding. My monkeys don’t order Postmates.
I have a person that goes in and watches them for me. My monkeys are in Vegas and my dogs, they’re pretty easy-going. My pigs are on a farm. Overall, they’re all pretty self-sufficient animals.

        IB: Have you ever brought them on tour with you?
      
SL: “No, they don't come on tour with me. I wish I could take them, but I'm not really allowed to in some countries because some of my pets are exotic animals. We can't even really take them certain places, which is very sad for me because I get monkey sick and I just want to be with my babies, but I can't.”

        IB: Outside of the tour, you’ve also been surprising a lot of college campuses. What can fans continue to expect from this visit and your new music to come?
      
SL: “They are just going to get to hear new music and kick it with me. Chop it up, you know what I'm saying? Fury is how I describe my new music. Music that brings out the inner fury and emotion in people.”
