
# Bitcoin Price Breaks $9,300 as Alts See Moderate Gains

Published at: **2019-11-02T15:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Adrian Zmudzinski**

Original: [Cointelegraph](https://cointelegraph.com/news/bitcoin-price-breaks-9-300-as-alts-see-moderate-gains)

Saturday, Nov. 2 — most of the top 20 cryptocurrencies are reporting moderate gains on the day at press time, after Bitcoin (BTC) broke the $9,300 mark again.

        Market visualization courtesy of Coin360
      
Bitcoin price is currently up by 2.06% on the day, trading at around $9,326 at press time, according to Coin360. Looking at its weekly chart, the coin is up by about 0.89%.

        Bitcoin 7-day price chart. Source: Coin360
      
As Cointelegraph reported earlier today, former Texas Republican congressman and presidential candidate Ron Paul received his reportedly first Bitcoin from Bitcoin Foundation board member and Bitcoin wallet startup Ballet Crypto founder Bobby Lee
Ether (ETH) is holding onto its position as the largest altcoin by market cap, which currently stands at $19.9 billion. The second-largest altcoin, Ripple’s XRP, has a market cap of $12.7 billion at press time.
Coin360 data shows that ETH has seen its value increase by about 1.64% over the last 24 hours. At press time, ETH is trading around $183. On the week, the coin has also gained about 1.09% of its value. 

        Ether 7-day price chart. Source: Coin360
      
Ethereum development firm CasperLabs recently announced “Highway,” allegedly the first correct-by-construction Casper Proof of Stake implementation that is provably live and safe. 
XRP is up by about 1.32% over the last 24 hours and is currently trading at around $0.293. Compared to seven days ago, the coin has seen nearly no price gain or loss.

        XRP 7-day price chart. Source: Coin360
      
Among the top 20 cryptocurrencies, the only one reporting double-digit gains is Algorand (ALGO), which is up by 14.43% as of press time.
At press time, the total market capitalization of all cryptocurrencies is $249.3 billion, about 2.8% higher than the value it reported a week ago.
Keep track of top crypto markets in real time here
