
# Red Star Belgrade vs Tottenham LIVE: Score, goal updates, latest from Champions League clash

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:09:04+00:00**

Author: **Michael Jones**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football/live/red-star-vs-tottenham-live-stream-score-goals-result-champions-league-latest-ucl-a9188356.html)

Tottenham Hotspur play Red Star Belgrade this evening, needing to win to boost their hopes of qualifying for the Champions League knockout stages.
Spurs reached the final in Madrid last season but have made an underwhelming start to this season’s tournament, drawing with Olympiacos and then being hammered at home by Bayern Munich.
But their confidence was boosted by beating today’s opponents Red Star 5-0 at home at the end of October – although the Serbian side are likely to be a different proposition in their own backyard. Follow live coverage below, after updates from Lokomotiv vs Juventus.
Show latest update2019-11-06T21:09:04.603ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham 48 mins: Ndombele gives the ball away and Red Star have a great chance to equalise. Marin takes the ball into the box and gives it to Pavkov. Pavkov should shoot but doesn't and tries to pass the ball back to Marin but kick it out of play instead. 
2019-11-06T21:06:04.203ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham Second half: Tottenham kick start the second half and send the ball to their defence. Their aim will be to dominate possession and keep Red Star's chances to a minimum.
2019-11-06T20:54:37.530ZHere is Spurs' opening goal! 
2019-11-06T20:49:54.803ZThat was a strange 45 minutes of play. Nothing seemed to happen for long periods and then out of nothing absolute chaos. It happened twice.  Tottenham managing to find the back of the net with their attempt and Red Star failing with theirs. As both teams want the three points expect a more focussed line of attack in the second half. 
AdvertisementHALF TIME2019-11-06T20:48:03.840ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham 45+2 mins: Two more minutes are played with mo major incidents and Spurs go into the break with a one goal lead.  Gazzaniga has made two great saves, getting fingertips to van La Parra's shot to push it onto the post, but both sides have had chances. Tottenham have taken one of theirs.
2019-11-06T20:45:28.490ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham 45 mins: More woodwork! This time for Red Star as van La Parra is fed the ball as he makes a run into the box. He shoots going for the gap at the near post but hits the uprights. The ball rebounds and hits Sanchez before going on to hit the crossbar!
2019-11-06T20:43:32.203ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham 42 mins: Son wins a corner with a deflected shot after Dele Alli finds him  in the box. Spurs play the ball short and work it around the edge of the box. Dele Alli makes a run and the ball comes into the box but the pass is too heavy and goes out for a goal kick. 
2019-11-06T20:41:04.903ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham 39 mins: Harry Kane almost gets free in the box. A beautiful ball is played up to him but he is flagged offside before the he can shoot.
Advertisement2019-11-06T20:38:19.260ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham 36 mins: A quick VAR check says the goal should stand and now the only thing that matters is that Spurs have the lead in Belgrade. Can they go on and get a second?  
GOAL!2019-11-06T20:34:19.773ZRed Star 0 - 1 Tottenham - Lo Celso 34 mins: GOAL! What has happened there?!  Tottenham break after a good tackle from Lo Celso and they have three men facing two defenders. Lo Celso gives the ball to Kane in the box and he hits the post. The ball then comes to Son who has a shot blocked on the line. Dele Alli looks like he was fouled as the ball comes back out to Kane. Kane fires a shot that hits the post again, bounces out, hits Son's knee then comes off the crossbar. Finally Lo Celso gets to the ball and he puts it into the back of the net!
YELLOW CARD2019-11-06T20:32:09.246ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 30 mins: Eric Dier is shown a yellow card for an over exuberant challenge by jumping over Pavkov to claim an aerial ball.   
2019-11-06T20:27:49.170ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 27 mins: Ndombele sends a Spurs free kick into the box and a glancing header brings Tottenham a corner.  Lo Celso takes the corner and Borjan punches it away. Sissoko picks up the ball and smokes it high and wide over the goal. 
Advertisement2019-11-06T20:26:08.226ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 24 mins: SAVE! Great save from Gazzaniga. Tottenham lose the ball and van La Parra can bring it forward. The ball comes to Pavkov as van La Parra is tackled and a bit of fortune bounces the ball off Dier and back into Pavkov's path. He shoots but Gazzaniga sticks out a leg and denies Red Star the lead.  
2019-11-06T20:22:48.273ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 21 mins: Foyth tries to be clever at the byline but loses the ball and it goes out off an Tottenham player for a goal kick.  Spurs win it back quickly and Ndombele brings it forward. The ball comes to Dele Alli but some indecision on his part means he lets the ball go out for a goal kick. 
2019-11-06T20:19:36.896ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 18 mins: Spurs win a corner. Lo Celso whips the ball into the box and Borjan punches it away. Sanchez sends the ball back into the middle of the area but Milunovic heads the ball away before it reaches Son. 
2019-11-06T20:17:12.820ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 15 mins: Red Star are paying Spurs a lot of respect, allowing them to bring the ball forward and dropping off them as they approach. Son is caught offside as he makes a run into the box to collect a ball from over the top.
Advertisement2019-11-06T20:14:20.396ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 12 mins: Ndombele squeezes the ball into Hary Kane, who works the ball onto his right foot as his comes into the box. He shoots but finds the side netting. 
2019-11-06T20:11:08.090ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 9 mins: Tottenham move the ball up the pitch, slickly. Some good interplay between Kane and Lo Celso gets the ball into the box before Kane gives away a free kick. 
2019-11-06T20:07:44.810ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 6 mins: Eric Dier, playing at centre back tonight, takes a no nonsense approach and boots the ball into touch.  Both teams are feeling each other out for the time being. 
2019-11-06T20:04:22.006ZRed Star 0 - 0 Tottenham 3 mins: Marin is taken out by a tough challenge from Sissoko and Tottenham come away with the ball.   Foyth gets forward and tries to put a ball into the box but it is blocked out for a throw in.
Advertisement1 2 3 4 5 6Next
Match preview
Kick-off is at 8pm GMT on November 6.
The match will be aired live on BT Sport 2, with coverage beginning at 7pm.
Subscribers can also watch the game via the BT Sport app, or online via the BT Sport player.
Red Star are a far tougher proposition at home in Serbia and have not lost a domestic game in more than a month. It could be an edgy night in Belgrade, but Tottenham should be able to battle to three points.

          2-1 to Tottenham is our prediction.
        
