
# 3,536 units of the MG Hector SUV sold in October 2019

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:44:50+00:00**

Author: **Team OD  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/3536-units-of-the-mg-hector-suv-sold-in-october-2019/)

MG Hector SUV debuted this year in the Indian market and received a more than warm response. With the booking number still marked at 38,000, MG states that it has sold 3,536 units of the Hector SUV in 2019.
Commenting on the sales performance, Rakesh Sidana, Director – Sales, MG Motor India, said, "MG HECTOR continues to further strengthen its position in its segment and win hearts of our customers. As we gradually ramp up our production, we aim to ensure the highest levels of customer satisfaction through timely vehicle deliveries."
Recently, MG made an official announcement to ramp up their production early this month and the 15,000 customers who have booked the SUV are already on the company's priority list.
New customers can book the Hector for a token of Rs 50,000, however, the prices of the SUV have been increased by approximately 2.5 per cent depending on the trim. Customers who booked the Hector in the first phase will be secured from the price hike.
The deliveries are expected to commence by January 2020, although we suspect a second price revision coming soon owing to the updates necessary to meet the BSVI emission norms before April 2020.
Currently, the MG Hector is priced between Rs 12.48-17.28 lakh ex-showroom and the SUV takes on the likes of the Tata Harrier, Kia Seltos, Hyundai Creta and the Jeep Compass.

        2020 Baojun 530 facelift SUV (MG Hector) launched in China
      

        Bookings for MG Hector SUV re-opens but with a 2.5 per cent price hike
      
