
# Man, 44, who's battled cancer six times 'sticks two fingers up at his disease'

Published at: **2019-11-06T14:51:27+00:00**

Author: **Jane Lavender, https://www.facebook.com/dailymirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/man-44-whos-battled-cancer-20783090)

Jonathan Acott has been fighting cancer for a third of his life after being diagnosed with the disease six times by the age of 44.
He has had tumours in his chest, lungs, kidney and bowel.
But now Jonathan, from Epsom in Surrey, is sticking two fingers up at the disease that robbed him of his 30s.
He lives by the motto made famous by the hit film The Shawshank Redemption "you get busy living or you get busy dying".
Jonathan is embarking on a challenge that will see him try to join the '7 Continents Club', which is an elite group of around 200 athletes who have completed a marathon on all continents in the world.
 
Jonathan, a motivational speaker, life coach and ambassador for leading blackcurrant health and fitness supplement brand CurraNZ, says: “Life can't stop.
"And my motivation for running these races almost comes from a point of defiance.
"I know I've had cancer six times. I know it'll probably limit the length of my life. But I own that now, rather than railing against it, because I can't change it.
“All I know is that if I exercise, I'm in a better mental space. My body and my mind are better prepared to deal with cancer should I get ill again."
In spite of his ordeal Jonathan - who is currently cancer free - feels he is one of the lucky ones.
 
The former racecourse director said: “There are millions of other people who are surviving cancer but they can't get out there and exercise the way they want to. I can.
“For me it would seem rather spoilt behaviour to be given the ability - both mentally and physically - to do these things and to instead sit on my backside and wallow when there are millions of people worse off.
“I use supplements, particularly CurraNZ, so that I hurt less from training and it also helps my immune system.
“You just have to go out there and live your best life.”
Jonathan was just 29 in 2004 when he was diagnosed with testicular cancer. 
 
The tumour eventually spread to his lymph nodes and lungs.
But following 12 weeks of chemotherapy at hospital in Oxford, the cancer responded well to treatment.
For three years Jonathan got back to living his life, only to suffer a relapse in 2007 after a rhabdomyosarcoma tumour the "size of a cricket ball" was discovered in his chest.
He had full lateral thoracotomy to remove the mass - and was back swimming and going to the gym as soon as his wounds had healed.
Back on his feet, he climbed Mount Kilimanjaro in February 2009, and a year later cycled the 874 miles from John O Groats to Lands End.
 
In 2012 Jonathan also completed his first Ironman - consisting of a 2.4-mile swim, a 112-mile bicycle ride and a marathon 26-mile run - in Nice, France.
But while seemingly at the peak of his fitness, the cancer returned in 2013, after a germ cell tumour was discovered in the lymph nodes behind his stomach.
This cancer had first manifested in 2012 - meaning he’d had it while completing the gruelling Ironman.
He once again underwent surgery to remove the tumour - and 45 other lymph nodes - to become cancer-free once more.
And by the start of 2014 Jonathan had completed a 12-mile solo swim covering the length of Lake Windermere in Cumbria, followed by an ultra-marathon in March 2015 - a 44-mile run around Bristol.
 
In June 2016, however, Jonathan’s nemesis returned to haunt him once more with cancerous lymph nodes discovered next to his kidney.
More surgery followed only for a tumour on his kidney to be detected in February 2017.
Jonathan didn’t let the disease deter him completing the Weymouth Half Ironman in September 2017.
By December 2017, however, bowel cancer - diagnosis number six - was also found in his colon.
Despite having his kidney and spleen surgically removed in May 2018 after three months of chemotherapy, determined Jonathan remains resolute.
 
He said: “I've had a cumulative total of six months of chemotherapy in hospital, four major surgeries and have to take antibiotics for life because I have a compromised immune system.
“I have permanent nerve damage and hearing loss - amongst a host of other issues.
“Only with the last cancer - the tumour on my kidney - was I in pain. All the others have been so small that I didn't even notice they were there.
"But what happens is because your body is clearly fighting something you get more and more tired, both mentally and physically.
“It's incredibly draining because your body is trying to deal with an invader. And it’s hard to describe chemotherapy tiredness.
 
“It's a tiredness sleep can't solve. The only thing that will resolve it is time, because your body has to repair on a deep, cellular level.
"For my chemotherapy, I was in hospital for five days at a time and on a drip for 23 hours a day.
“You get bad aching joints, shin pain, ankle pain, tiredness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, acid reflux like you've never experienced and heartburn . Your body hates every single second.
"There's listlessness, there's forgetfulness.
“I used to be able to do a crossword in a well-known broadsheet in about 10 minutes. Now I can't do it, the brain just dies. It's all very very challenging."
 
There were times when Jonathan admits he was on a self-destruct mission and he considered taking his own life but seeing a psychotherapist helped him through it.
Remarkably, he has already ticked off one of the marathons on his inter-continental to-do list.
In September he ran the Berlin Marathon in a time of 4 hours and 58 minutes.
And the next leg of his journey will take him to Africa for the Marrakech Marathon in Morocco in January next year.
One thing Jonathan credits with helping him stay so active is his use of a blackcurrant supplement called CurraNZ.
The blackcurrants used in the product are grown in New Zealand - and because of the Southern Hemisphere’s intense UV light, this produces unusually high levels of protective and health-giving nutrients compared with berries grown elsewhere.
Jonathan said: “My health issues mean that I don’t recover as well as I used to after exercise and I am prone to infection, so I can’t let myself get run down.
"As well as ensuring that I have a very carefully tailored training plan, I use CurraNZ for their muscle recovery, anti-inflammatory and immune system-boosting properties which means I'm always ready for the next session."
“With the correct training, my CurraNZ and some luck I can show anyone who is suffering or having a tough time that anything is possible if you know your limitations not your limits.”
