
# College Football Odds, Picks & Predictions For Week 10: Florida to Upset Georgia?

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Zack Jones**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/zackjones/2019/11/01/college-football-odds-picks--predictions-for-week-10-florida-to-upset-georgia/)

With four of the nation’s top five ranked teams out of action this week, and barring No. 3 Clemson falling to Wofford, college football fans shouldn't see much shake up in the overall playoff races. Fortunately the scheduling gods have still offered up a few gems for our viewing pleasure, along with some matchups that look to offer prime wagering value for those looking to lock in a few bets.

        Georgia vs Florida (+6.5, 44.5)
      
Week 10 is highlighted by the SEC battle between No. 6 Florida and No. 8 Georgia where the victor will most likely clinch the SEC East title and enter the playoff contention conversations should another top team stumble down the homestretch.
College football handicapper Drew Martin of SportsMemo.com has crunched the numbers, and suggest that bettors give the 6-point underdogs a serious look in this battle.
“Florida continues to be a money maker since Kyle Trask took over at the QB position. The Gator offense is much more efficient throwing the ball down the field after the transition. The Georgia defense has not faced a passing attack like they will see on Saturday this year.”
Georgia’s stats might suggest that they are well equipped to counter the Florida air attack, but some of their strongest defensive performances came against Vanderbilt, S. Carolina and Kentucky, all of which sit conveniently at the bottom of the conference rankings.
“I like the underdog to surprise Saturday in the "Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party" for the SEC East championship.”

        Kansas St at Kansas (+6.5, O/U 53.5)
      
Kansas St comes into this rivalry matchup fresh off of a statement win over a top 5 ranked Oklahoma Sooners team, which saw the Wildcats post close to 50 points.
While many handicappers predict that the Wildcats could have a “falling back to earth” game in store when facing the Jayhawks, Martin supports a play on the game’s total instead.
“The Wildcats rushed for over 200 yards and passed for north of 200 in their victory over Oklahoma. The Jayhawks’ offense has also stepped up big time ever since switching their offensive coordinator a couple weeks back, having since scored 48 and 37 points while passing for 725+ yards.”
The oddsmakers have offered this game’s total in the 54 t- 54.5 range, with consensus reports at MyBookie.ag showing close to 82% of wagers backing the over.
“Both offenses are going to have a big day,” predicts Martin. “I’m betting the over!”

        Akron vs Bowling Green (-6, 49.5)
      
The Akron Zips are 0-8 on the season, and shockingly 0-8 against the spread. Arguably the worst team in the country, the Zips are only averaging 10 points a game and have been shutout in their last two appearances.
“This is a fade away team for me,” claims Martin. “Bowling Green is not a top team by any means, but are at home where they have won twice this season. The trend is your friend in sports betting and almost every trend says bet against Akron. Lay the short number with the Falcons.”
