
# Man whose body pulled from river linked to Quinn brothers' murder

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:26:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/04/news/man-whose-body-pulled-from-river-liked-to-quinn-brothers-murder-1755897/)

MAN whose body was pulled from a river in Co Derry last week has been linked to the sectarian murder of the three young Quinn brothers in 1998.
The remains of Raymond Parke, from Bushmills in Co Antrim, were discovered in the River Bann in Coleraine on Thursday.
His family had appealed for information just hours before his body was found.
The Sunday World reported that Parke was named in court as one of two men who had thrown a petrol bomb into the home of Chrissie Quinn and her four children in Ballymoney on July 12 1998.
The three youngest children, Jason (eight), Mark (nine) and Richard (10), were trapped in their bedroom and died.
Ms Quinn’s eldest son Lee (12) had been staying overnight at his grandmother’s house.
It emerged that Ms Quinn had tried to save her children before jumping from an upstairs bedroom window along with her Protestant boyfriend.
A neighbour said at the time that the children could be heard crying for help with one of them shouting that his feet were burning.
The family had only been living at the address for six days when it was attacked at the height of the Orange Order standoff at Drumcree outside Portadown.
In an interview with The Irish News last year Frankie Quinn, a brother of Chrissie Quinn, described how he identified the bodies of his nephews and remains traumatised by what he saw.
Parke never faced charges, however Garfield Gilmour was convicted of the murders but had the charges reduced to manslaughter on appeal.
He was jailed for 14 years in 2000.
The savagery of the triple killing made headlines around the world.
In April 1999, the Quinn brother’s former home was demolished to make way for a children’s play area as a memorial.
Yesterday, John Dallat, SDLP MLA for East Derry, called for the murder of the Quinn brothers to be reopened.
“That is the one case from the Troubles that is etched in my memory,” he said. “ I was there when the wee coffins were brought back to Rasharkin and the mother struggling to come to terms with what happened.
“The outcome of the court case was never satisfactory. Only the driver was ever convicted. If ever a case deserves to be reopened this is it and I will support the family in any way I can.
“The people responsible need to be brought to justice.”
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
