
# From bars to pod homes: how underused car parks are being transformed

Published at: **2019-11-07T12:45:02+00:00**

Author: **Gareth E Rees**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2019/nov/07/from-bars-to-pod-homes-how-underused-car-parks-are-being-transformed)


        Shopper numbers in city centres are falling, leaving car parks empty – and councils are finding innovative ways to repurpose the space
      
The Abbey Walk multistorey car park in Grimsby is a stark concrete layer cake with abstract reliefs sculpted by artist Harold Gosney on its flank and an elegant spiral access ramp. But despite its appearance, North East Lincolnshire council believe that Abbey Walk’s reputation for attracting anti-social behaviour puts off customers and is seeking £1.54m investment for a refurbishment programme. When I visited on a Saturday, there were surprisingly few vehicles inside. A group of young teenagers chased each other through the levels, hopping on the lifts, screams of mock fear echoing off the concrete. It felt like I was in an adventure playground as much as a car park, a space where imaginations could run wild.
As shopper numbers fall in city centres as more of us shop online or visit out-of-town retail parks, many multistoreys like Abbey Walk are underused. A new idea is taking hold: doing something productive with them.
Repurposing carparks is becoming a more popular idea in an era where pubs are closing, high streets are struggling and spending cuts have decreased the availability of public spaces like libraries, community centres and sports fields. In Peckham, a former multistorey car park was saved from demolition and repurposed in 2007, when Southwark council leased the top floor to the organisation Bold Tendencies, who opened a rooftop bar called Frank’s Café. The top three floors played host to exhibitions and cultural events, including a performance of Stravinsky’s Rite of Spring by the Multi-Story Orchestra.
In 2015 the council developed the middle floors and offered them up for lease. Bold Tendencies wanted to create 800 subsidised office spaces for creatives, but lost out in their bid to Make Shift, the developers behind Pop Brixton. In 2017 they opened Peckham Levels, a mix of bars, recreation spaces and studios for small businesses and social enterprises. The aim is to offer favourable rates for businesses in the local postcode, as well as donating a percentage of the profits to a community fund. Well-meaning though this might be, local community group Peckham Vision complained that the locals were not involved in drafting the brief for the bids. With food and drink prices inside the centre more expensive than on Peckham’s high streets, you might wonder if the Levels will become the socially diverse community hub it promised to be. Neither does the building function as a car park any longer. I had to park in the nearby Morrisons to pay a visit.
Instead of turning car parks into something else entirely, they can be combined with other uses. For instance, in Harlow’s Terminus Street multistorey, there is a Mecca Bingo, while in Plymouth there are plans to develop the Harbour Car Park, adding a café and “living walls” made of plants.
Over in the US, this trend is even more established. For instance, in Los Angeles a forthcoming residential complex created by AvalonBay Communities will include a multistorey with a gym, theatre, and restaurant space. In Florida’s Miami Beach, the 111 Lincoln Road multistorey is constructed from open-air platforms, with parking for 300 cars as well as shops on the ground level and a fashion boutique on the fifth floor. To capitalise on Florida’s many other parking spaces, a company called ParkJockey is planning to sell lots to taxi, car rental and food delivery companies. In Vancouver, The Gastown Parkades, have not only parking space, but offices, with retail at ground level and a room used by a film school. Meanwhile in Lisbon, the Park Bar is a trendy urban rooftop garden and cocktail bar on the sixth floor of a multi-storey.
There is a growing argument that even superstore car parks could include entertainment and leisure facilities. In 2014 the Royal Society of Arts recommended that retail car parks should also be used for pursuits like basketball, skateboarding and tennis. They could host temporary skating rinks, climbing walls and fun fair rides or even shipping containers in which workshops and courses could be held. Profits from these activities might be be re-invested into local projects.
However, some believe there is a more urgent problem to be tackled. Tom Forth, an associate at ODI Leeds, runs a company called imactivate, whose data visualisation software examines the amount of space that car parks take up. For instance, in the centre of Leeds, car parks take up 7% of the land, which is enough space to build 3,220 homes. If we were to cover all the car parks in Britain, 1.2m homes could be built on top. “I am deeply wary, with an ongoing shortage of homes, of calls to replace car parking with ‘community space’ and parks,” said Forth. “We need homes. Build homes.”
There are signs of this happening. The owners of Coventry’s Cannon Park Shopping Centre plan to develop a section of the car park into student accommodation. In April it was announced that housing association Catalyst would build 450 affordable homes around three Transport for London car parks in Harrow. In August, a planning inspector gave the go-ahead for student accommodation to be developed in the car park of Sentinel House, a former office block. Meanwhile, South Somerset district council have caused some local shoppers consternation with their plans to develop the Box Factory, South Street, Court Ash and South Street Market car parks into housing. The danger with such schemes is that they remove a functional space that is needed by the wider community. An alternative is to integrate car parks and housing. For example, on 1 October Bristol City council approved spending for ZEDpods to build eleven homes over the St George carpark. These affordable, eco-friendly modular pods are raised on stilts above the car park, allowing for parking to continue beneath.
However, in central London, the Welbeck Street multistorey, a diamond-patterned brutalist structure in the centre of London, originally built for a department store, became obsolete as heavy traffic and congestion charges reduced the number of shoppers using cars. A campaign spearheaded by the Twentieth Century Society tried to save the building for its architectural qualities, but in February this year Westminster council approved plans to demolish it and replace it with a hotel. Jo Underhill, a photographer who documented Welbeck Street’s final two and half years in her project Ode to Welbeck said: “It would have been great to see it repurposed rather than completely demolished”, adding, “not only was it aesthetically interesting but historically important, and an important part of the community.”

        Gareth E. Rees’s book Car Park Life is published by Influx Press. You can see his car park photographs on Instagram or follow him on Twitter @BritUnofficial
      

        Follow Guardian Cities on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to join the discussion, catch up on our best stories or sign up for our weekly newsletter
      
