
# Asia Stocks Look Mixed on Trade Signing Roadblock

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:13:49+00:00**

Author: **Bloomberg**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/asia-stocks-look-mixed-trade-signing-roadblock)

(Nov 7): Asian stocks are poised to open mixed Thursday after reports that the signing of a partial U.S.-China trade deal may be delayed dented investor optimism. Treasuries rebounded after dropping for three days.
Futures on Japanese and Hong Kong equities were lower, while they rose in Australia. The S&P 500 Index closed little changed Wednesday on word that the signing of a preliminary trade agreement may not be signed until December as the two sides wrangle over a location. Tech stocks slid and shares in energy companies declined alongside West Texas crude. The yen ticked higher.
Mounting hopes of a U.S.-China trade deal has buoyed confidence in markets this month just as key economic indicators show signs of stabilization. While the latest data from Europe suggest a robust recovery may not be on the cards, a relative improvement eased fears that the global economy was hurtling toward a recession.
Elsewhere, oil slumped after a report that the biggest producers in OPEC+ aren’t pushing for deeper oil-supply cuts when the group meets next month. Gold was higher.
Here are some key events coming up this week:
Earnings are due this week from companies including: Walt Disney, Toyota, Deutsche Telekom.Regional Federal Reserve presidents including Charles Evans, John Williams and Patrick Harker speak at events on Wednesday.A Bank of England monetary decision is due Thursday.The USDA World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates Report for November comes out Friday.
These are the main moves in markets:Stocks
Nikkei 225 futures fell 0.1%.Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index futures rose 0.4%.Hang Seng Index futures slipped 0.1%.The S&P 500 Index increased 0.1%.
Currencies
The yen strengthened 0.2% to 108.98 per dollar.The offshore yuan dipped 0.1% to 7.0125 per dollar.The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index was little changed.The euro declined 0.1% to $1.1068.
Bonds
The yield on 10-year Treasuries decreased four basis points to 1.82%.Australian 10-year bond futures rose.
Commodities
West Texas Intermediate crude fell 1.4% to $56.46 a barrel.Gold strengthened 0.5% to $1,490.99 an ounce. - Bloomberg
