
# Arsenal predicted lineup vs Wolves as Granit Xhaka absent for Premier League clash

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Alex Richards, https://www.facebook.com/AARichards/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/arsenal-predicted-lineup-vs-wolves-20792101)

Arsenal take on Wolves in their latest Premier League clash, with club captain Granit Xhaka set to be conspicuous by his absence.
Switzerland midfielder Xhaka will not feature at the Emirates, six days after telling fans to "f*** off" when being substituted during the 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace .
Xhaka has trained normally with the first team throughout the week, but Unai Emery has decided to leave him out of the squad for the visit of Nuno Espirito Santo's side.
As such, Matteo Guendouzi will be partnered by Uruguay midfielder Lucas Torreira at the base of midfield.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, rested during the pulsating 5-5 draw with Liverpool in midweek - is set to captain the side in the absence of Xhaka.
Mesut Ozil returned to action on Wednesday night in the Carabao Cup at Anfield, having spent more than a month on the outside looking in.
"His performance at Liverpool is the way we want," says Emery. “I am helping him, supporting him, demanding of him. This is the Mesut I think everyone wants.
“He has big experience, and when you talk about players who are ready to play under high pressure, he is one of them.
However, the World Cup winner is likely to have to settle for a place on the bench, with Dani Ceballos set to be preferred as the most advanced of the midfield trio.
Wolves arrive in north London with their own issues, notably in defence.
Star man Willy Boly is out until the new year after surgery on a fractured ankle, suffered during training last week.
And Ryan Bennett is also sidelined with a groin injury, meaning a likely three-man backline of Romain Saiss, Conor Coady and full-back Matt Doherty.
Arsenal predicted XI: Leno; Chambers, Sokratis, Luiz, Tierney; Guendouzi, Torreira; Pepe, Ceballos, Aubameyang; Lacazette.
