
# 51 Places to Visit in India Before You Turn 30

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:59:27+00:00**

Author: **Aanavandi**

Original: [Aanavandi Travel Blog](https://www.aanavandi.com/blog/51-places-to-visit-in-india-before-you-turn-30/)


        
          51 Places to Visit in India Before You Turn 30
        
      
There is a fun bucket list of the best places to visit in India before you turn thirty. They are not just destinations but also crazy experiences that will go down the book of your memory lane. From treading on Living Root Bridges in Cherrapunji to a bike ride through Ladakh, trekking through the valley of flowers in Himalayas to surfing in Orissa, here are some insane experiences.
How often does one boast about walking on a frozen river in a dreamlike destination? Stamped as one of the most thrilling experiences for an adventure aficionado, the Chadar trek route connects villages in the Zanskar valley deep in the mountains with Chilling and the frozen Zanskar River.
Bringing back the vigor of younger days, the once-in-a-lifetime experience will make you come across breathtaking sights. It also gives you the much-needed nudge to be physically fit before you even get there.
Book this Package Now! : Chadar Trek Frozen River Zanskar Trek 2020
Flights:  Since Manali to Leh road remains closed in winter, you can get the flight to Leh as low as Rs.3000 if booked in advance.

        Packages: Leh Ladakh Tour Packages
      
Bike Tours: Manali To Leh Bike Trip and Leh Ladakh Bike Tours

        Know more about the “Land of High Passes”!
      
Twenties is the time to step out of your comfort zone and do something exciting like staying in a desert in Jaisalmer. Challenge yourself by camping among the endless stretches of sand. As you camp in the rustic tents, on the horizon is nothing but the unbridled view of sand and sky.
Night brings in its own allure as perched on the royal divan, you relish in Rajasthani cuisine under the twinkling starts and revel in the entertainment provided by the local people.
Things to do: Things to Do in Jaisalmer
Attractions: Places to visit in Jaisalmer Places to stay: Best Resorts of Jaisalmer
Tours: Desert Safari Packages in Jaisalmer
How to reach: Jaisalmer is very well conected from Jaipur and you will find lots of flights to Jaipur for Rs.1000.
Instead of taking the normal route to Dudhsagar Falls, how about trekking up to it? This trail brings along some exciting adventures. Depending upon your fitness levels you can walk on the railway tracks (where you have to be weary of the trains passing by and make sure you are not hit by one), cross the Mondovi River or tread through bountiful jungles.

        Visit Dudhsagar Waterfalls
      
The entire journey is rewarded with the breath-taking sight of Dudhsagar Falls. As the name suggests you will get to witness the sea of milk gushing through the rocks. On days of no rain, you can also take a dip in the pool below, but at your own peril.
Recommended Tour: Trip To Dudhsagar Waterfalls, Goa
How to reach: There are lot of  flights to the Dabolim Airport in Panjim under Rs.1,500. From Panjim, you can hire a taxi to Dudhsagar falls.
With bursting of vitality and eagerness, twenties is the best time to indulge in adventure sports. Ride the mystical waters of Ganges with rafting in Rishikesh. It is the most famous place to play this sport. For, you get to raft upon fierce frothing water pouring through rocky terrains and green stretches. If you are looking for something thrilling, you can go for bungee jumping in Rishikesh. To experience the landscape of this mysterious place you can also go camping and undertake other adventure sports and visit some scenic places of Rishikesh

        Things to do: 
        Best Things to do in Rishikesh
      
Best Places to stay: Best Resorts in Rishikesh
Tours of Rishikesh: Best tour packages in Rishikesh

        Places to visit: 
        Best Places to visit in Rishikesh
      
How to reach: You can take a flight to Delhi, Rishikesh is just 242 km from Delhi. There are a lot of local buses and cabs to reach Rishikesh.
Take on a riveting but equally challenging bike expedition from Manali to Leh. The journey is a paradise for true blue bikers. Offering one of the best routes to ride in the world, this magnetic highway stretches over 475 kms and is a must experience before your thirties.
As it is here you get away from the craziness of life and reflect within. Admire the beauty of nature as you get the serene views of snow-capped mountains, untamed roads, barren brown terrains, sparkling turquoise lake, cascading streams and breath-taking landscapes.
Tours: Manali to Leh – Bike, Bicycle, Jeep Expedition Packages
Checkout: Manali-Leh-Manali Jeep Safari
It is said that man truly comes of his own when among pristine nature. For this, head to Coorg, known as the Scotland of India. It is at this cool hill station that you get the unbridled sight of green stretches and experience serenity. Topping the experience is the intoxicating aroma of the coffee plantations permeating the air.

        Things to do: 
        Amazing Things to Do in Coorg
      
Places to See: Sightseeing Attractions in Coorg

        Places to Stay: 
        Best Resorts and Places to Stay in Coorg
      

        Best Tours: 
        Best tour Packages in Coorg
      
How to reach: Best way to reach Coorg is to take a flight to Bangalore which will cost you around Rs.2,000 and then take a taxi or public transport.
View unsurpassed sights of the Himalayas with the ambitious trek to the enchanting Markha Valley. Since the altitude here is quite high, it takes some days to acclimatise to the climate and you need to be your fittest. Popularly called the ‘tea house trek’, it is here you tread through one of the highest peopled plateaus and get great views of the Ladakh and Zanskar ranges. Along the way, get inspired by interacting with nomadic clans and experience serenity by touring a quaint monastery.
Most Recommended Tour: Markha Valley Trekking Adventure
There is a reason why Scuba Diving has become so popular among youngsters in Andaman. As you plunge into eleven to fifteen feet deep into the turquoise beach, you are transported to a hidden water kingdom. Swim along the diverse vibrant fishes and witness the breath-taking sponges and coral life that you never knew existed.
Check out these amazing offers on hotels in Andaman and Nicobar and let yourself relax in cozy and secure spaces.

        Things to do: 
        Best Things to do in Andaman
      

        Best package: 
        Scuba Diving In Andaman
      
Places to visit: Places to visit in Andaman Nicobar Islands
How to reach : Best way to go Andaman is to take flight from Chennai which will cost you around Rs.4,000.

        Best Honeymoon Package: Here are the perfect Andaman Honeymoon Packages
      
 
Become one with nature and experience serenity with the Roopkund trek, Himalayas. This trail provides an all-encompassing experience and visions of snow, ice, gushing streams, untouched forests, delightful stretches of meadows and scenic camping places. Need we say more?
Tours: Roopkund Trekking Tours
How to reach: There are just domestic flight in Uttarakhand. So you can take a flight to Dehradun which will cost you Rs.1,000 if booked in advance. From there you can take a cab or a local bus.
For a crazy, daring wildlife experience head to Corbett, Uttarakhand. It is a home to many endangered tigers. You can drive through the thick jungles by a jeep safaris. For the gustier, exclusive elephant safaris are available too.
Places to Stay: Best Resorts in Corbett National Park
Tours: Best tours in Jim Corbett National Park
Test your fitness levels by trekking to Kudremukh, Karnataka. The rewards of this hikes are many. Fitness apart, it is the sights that make you want to climb higher. With steep hills and valleys, depending upon where the sunlight falls, the landscape turns a different green. When you reach the top and are embraced by the fog spreading on the mountain peaks, you feel that you have reached heaven indeed.
Packages: Best tours of Kudremukh
Still hung over with fairy tales of childhood? Take a trek to the Valley of Flowers. It located in Himalayas of the Uttaranchal and is just that, vast stretches of vibrant flowers such as Brahmakamal, Blue Poppy and the Cobra Lily spread across the valley. Such is the divine beauty of this place that it seems to have popped straight out of a fairy tale story. And yes, this hike requires you have a great deal of stamina too.
Tours: Trekking Guide to Valley of Flowers
How to reach: Take a flight to Dehradun which will cost you Rs.1,000 if booked in advance. From there you can take a cab or a local bus.
Sandakphu Trek, the highest point of West Bengal. It is from here that you get the view and experience of the all-embracing nature. However, trek to the top is quite a tedious one and requires you to be in the pink of health.
Best Tour: Trekking Adventure to Sandakphu
Best age to experience crazy adventure, head to Solang for Paragliding. Experience the bursting thrill as you breeze by and get the panoramic sight of green mountains, valleys, expansive sky and snow-capped ranges. paragliding here is a must do activity in Kullu valley.
How to reach: The nearest airport to Solang Valley is the town of Kullu, you will get lots of cheap flights to Kullu if booked in advance. As Solang is very well connected with the Kullu you can easily take a bus or a cab.
Explore more activities at kullu namely:
Twenties is the age where you have the enthusiasm and patience for bus or truck ride. To get a feel of the rustic enrapturing sights that Srinagar and Leh offer, it kind of would heighten your experience if you took a rustic wagon like a bus or a truck. Trust us, you will have a whole different impression of this place altogether.
 
There is a lot more to Goa than basking by the lazy shores. Take a ride on the adventurous side with a like-minded group. Through the Quad Bike expedition, explore the rugged terrains, wilderness of the forests and other landscape delights that this place has to offer.
Things to do: Best Activities to do in Goa

        Places to See: 
        Best Places to Visit in Goa
      
Places to stay: Best Goa Resorts to chill out

        Tours: 
        Best tours in Goa
      
As you have the energy go on endless destinations, how about touring three fascinating wildlife places? Nestled in ‘God’s own country’ of Kerala are three breath-taking places of Munnar, Periyar and Thekkady. A wildlife trip to these best places to visit in India is a must, for it is here that you are overwhelmed with the remarkable sceneries and fauna of the land.
Tours: Best tours in Munnar
Andaman is a heaven for beach lovers with its silver sand and turquoise waters unlike any place else in India. For those who have the stomach for it (which is normally when you are younger), a boating trip to this place from Kolkata or Chennai is quite an experience in itself. For two or three days you will feel like a voyager on an expedition, riding the pristine waters.
Tours: Best tours in Andaman
Find peace in the spectacular sights that nature and man can provide at a younger age. For Sikkim is a paradise of beauty. From intricate and aesthetic monasteries in Gangtok to the lush Chopta Valley, the mesmerizing Lachung to Himalayan Zoological Park, the delightful places to visit in Sikkim are innumerable.
Tours: Sikkim Tour Packages at Thrillophilia.
How to reach: You can take a flight to the Bagdogra Airport of West Bengal which will cost you around Rs.3,000. You can take a cab or a local bus from there to Sikkim
For Best Places to visit in Gangtok, Click here
What seems like a vision belonging to the movie ‘The Lord of the Rings’, the Living Root Bridges at Cherrapunji is simply surreal. And yes, this bridge is actually made out of live living roots branching out from gigantic trees.
As you cross over, you are overwhelmed with the sight of thick winding roots, beautiful gathering of rocks and clear water below, all amidst a mushroom of overarching and towering trees. Appreciate the marvels of nature before you turn thirty.
Take a drive through wilderness, through the heart of the jungle of the dense Bandipur forest. Open only during specific hours of the day, this would be an unforgettable experience in your twenties. As, while go along narrow, winding roads, you might just spot elephants, monkeys and deer and if lucky, a wild cat on the way. Also, get spooked by the plenty snake holes around.
Places to stay: Best resorts in Bandipur

        Safari: 
        Bandipur Wildlife Safari In Chamarajanagar
      
Twenties is the time when you can let loose and party endlessly for days and nights. Go where the finest musicians and DJs converge to one of the hippest places in India. Experience the crazy Sunburn festival in Goa that is heralded as the biggest electronic dance music festival in Asia.
Under the open skies, and amidst scenic surroundings of Candolim Beach, grove endlessly to heart-thumping music along with thousands of youths across the globe.
How to reach: There are lot of flights to the Dabolim Airport in Panjim under Rs.1,500.
Checkout: Best Things to do in Goa
Loved the insane air stunts in the movie Top Gun? Witness something very similar at the Aero Show that takes place in Yelahanka, near Bangalore that has close to twenty seven countries participating. Cheer among the huge crowds as the as the exclusive range and aircrafts take-off, plummet, summersault and do a whole lot of awesome areal tricks.
What is so great about the Konkan Railways? It is the enrapturing sights that you get to see along the way. Through this journey you get to see the grand mountains of the Western Ghats, the several waterfalls that trickle through, limpid rivers and green stretches. Also, relive childhood and screech as you pass through the innumerable pitch black tunnels. Something that is better done before your thirties. age source.
A seasonal salt marsh amidst the famous Thar Desert, when at Rann of Kutch, Gujarat you feel that you are in the middle of no man’s land. For around you is nothing but the arid terrain of the desert providing a one of a kind experience.
Checkout: 4 Days Tour To Rann Of Kutch
Do visit during the kite festival where the skies come alive with vibrant and oversized kites. The biking tours to this place are quite popular too. Once in Gujarat, do not miss the Gir Forest either which is the house to fierce lions and diverse flora and fauna.
How to reach: You can take a flight to Ahmedabad which will cost you around Rs.1,500. You can take a cab or a local bus from there.
 
Embark upon the rather adventurous cycling tour of Nilgiris, one of the longest and largest tour. Not an easy expedition, you have to be bursting with energy and need months to build your stamina for this.
Hence, it is best undertaken before your thirties. Push the boundaries of your fitness levels and cycle along fellow enthusiasts for around eight days in the month of December. The ride too is quite a pleasant one with pristine land of thick verdant stretches.
Where to Stay: Homestay In Nilgiris With Bonfire
You really think that you cannot get spooked? Instead of watching a scary movie, how about living the horror by going to a haunted place? Bhangarh Fort is known as one of the scariest places to visit in India. According to folklore, an entire town of people seemed to have been obliterated in a day.
Supernatural activities are said to occur at night and no one is allowed here post sunset. The closer you get here, you are overcome with a queasy feeling. It is also said that those who have ventured post sunset have never been found.
How to reach: Bhangarh is 85kms from Jaipur. Take a flight to Jaipur which can be as low as Rs. 1,000. From Jaipur take a cab to the India’s most haunted place.
How to reach: take a flight from delhi to jaipur
Yes, we have all thought about backpacking across Europe sometime or the other, but how about exploring the exotic destinations that our own country provides?  Budget-friendly apart, backpacking is the best way to experience the mesmerising sights of the Seven Sisters States of the Northeast.
For once you step in here, you are in a place unlike any other with nature retained from acres of green fields to haunting caves, the largest river island to bridges made of roots, cascading waterfalls to a lot more. Just make sure that you pack along oodles of energy too, as this can get gruelling. Hence, before you turn 30 is the best time to do it on your next tour to Northeast India.
 
Jaipur is a mystical land appeases youngsters as well. On one hand, you can sink your teeth deep into the delectable local cuisines at Chokhi Dhani. While you are there, you can also learn to appreciate and immerse yourself with the vibrant culture that abounds. Another must do is the elephant safari. Perched high on an elephant you feel like a king overlooking the majestic landscapes of Jaipur.
Things to do: Offbeat Things to Do in Jaipur
Places to visit: Must Visit places in Jaipur
Places to Stay: Best Resorts in Jaipur
Places to see:Sightseeing attraction places 
How to reach: Jaipur is very well connected with all the metro cities and flight will cost you Rs.1000 if booked in advance.
Called as the cultural capital of India, and often written about in novels, Kolkata is a place that is best experienced in your twenties as there are so many things to do here. Shop at the quaint and bustling narrow bazaars, tour the iconic Victoria Memorial Hall, pray at the Dakshineswar Kali Temple, stroll along the famous Park Street, relish in the local street food…the list is endless.
Get a celestial-like feel before your thirties. Flanked by greenery, are the spectacular sights of Dhuandhar Falls in Bhedaghat, Jabalpur. The mysticism of this place mainly lies in the cascading frothing white waterfalls that appear to emanate a mist of smoke, giving it an ethereal quality.
Experience a spiritual journey with Vaishno Devi Temple nestled in the Trikuta Mountains, Jammu and Kashmir. Perched on a height of 5300 feet, it is one of the most revered religious places to visit in India. The path to get here is a challenge and will test your fitness along the way. However, the sights offered on the path and when you reach there are simply remarkable.
How to reach: Take a flight to Srinagar which will cost you as low as Rs.1,700 and from there you can hire a taxi.
 
Get a feel of patriotism and nationality at a younger age. Head to Wagah Border which is on the only crossing road border of Punjab and Pakistan. Celebrate along with thousands the extravagant ceremony that occurs here every day before the sun sets.
 
Vrindavan, the land where Lord Krishna spent his childhood, is the place to be during Holi. For, it is here that the festival is celebrated with much gusto and revelry. Thousands around the world and country flock to this place to get embraced by the burst of colours.
The entire town is painted in myriad hues this day. Entrainment troupes perform Holi songs as well. As this place can get chaotic and crowded, it is best to experience this when you have the energy and enthusiasm.
 
Witness the magnificence of Indian architecture at the Orissa Konark Temple. This iconic and revered shrine makes a pretty picture with ancient and intricate stone carvings. While at Orissa learn to ride the wonder waves by taking surfing lessons. The earlier you learn this sport the better. It is something that will come handy during later years across the world too!
How to reach: There are a lot of flights to Bhubaneswar which will cost you around Rs,3,300.
 
Twenties is the time where you can get away by doing nothing. Head to Gokarna, a more toned down version of Goa. It is here that you get to reel in the hippy vibe sans the commercialisation and onslaught of people. Relax by the lazy beaches, absorb the scenery of rocky terrains and pristine waters and enjoy by doing just about nothing. A holiday well spent indeed!
Places to Stay: Resorts in Gokarna to Unwind
Flights: The nearest airport to Gokarna is Dabolim Airport in Panjim and flight will cost you less than Rs.2000.
Jodhpur and Jaisalmer are the lands of opulent palaces, colourful culture and forts that retain the magnificence of the kings. They are also places that have retained the rusticity of nature. Leave the regular mode of transport for the elders. For an off-beat experience, explore on a truck or tractor trip.
What to do in Jodhpur: Things to do in Jodhpur
The life line of the bustling Mumbai city are the local trains that are constantly brimming with people. If you think that you have it in you to nudge your way across a sea of people then, this is a must experience at least once in your twenties.
Sightseeing: What to see in Mumbai
Experience a slice of history before your thirties by visiting the ancient temples in Hampi. Get marvelled by the architecture and intricate stone carvings that tell a thousand stories. Also, here are natural wonders such as the boulders. These gigantic stones seem to defy gravity and are spread across the land ornately.
Where to stay: Night Stay At Hampi Heritage And Wilderness Resort
Experience the untamed nature of Sunderbans with a boat ride. Given the accolade of the largest mangrove ecosystem in the world, this place offers one of a kind views. Through the boat cruise you can witness the fisherman’s cove, a three hundred year old temple, crocodile’s den, deer rehabilitation centre and a lot more.
How to reach: There are no direct flights to Sunderbans, so catch a flight to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport in Kolkata. From there you can take a cab or public transport.
Experience chaos in your twenties to appreciate the quiet in later years. Head to Varanasi, one of the oldest cities in the world. While the antique edifices and spiritual aura of the place lends a mystical charm, the sheer number of people thronging through the really narrow roads add to the chaos.
What to do: Must do Activities in Varanasi
Okay, so you may have gotten used to the idea of a horse or elephant safari. For an offbeat experience how about something as unique as a yak safari in Ladakh? The largest animal of this icy desert, these woolly creatures offer a comfortable ride. Explore green meadows, gushing brooks and glacial valleys on this safari.
We are not eluding to the cheesy movie renditions a gang of friends taking a Bombay to Goa road trip. But the truth of the matter is, this is a fun experience to have with your mob of friends who are so important at this age. The scenic views and bonding with your crazy friends along the drive will help you make that transition from the bustling Bombay to the laid back Goa.
Twenties is the time to explore, discover and test your fitness level. Be it Bangalore, Mumbai or Delhi, they all offer alluring trekking trails. Avail of this and finish at least five day treks  around the city. By the end of it you would have explored more, discovered new best places to visit in India, raised your fitness levels and also lost some weight too!
Benefit from your voracious appetite and metabolism during your teens and twenties. Indulge your taste buds with the delectable street food of Chadani Chok. It offers spicy chaats, mouth-watering kachoris, sweet jalebis, addictive confectionaries and rich North Indian food. Spend the whole day sinking your teeth in the aromatic flavours of this place.

        Other Places to Explore: Checkout list of other places to visit in Delhi
      
It would help if you understand the significance of festivals and learn to enjoy them at a younger age. The ideal place to celebrate the grandeur of Dasara is the majestic Mysore. For at this time, the city is beautifully lit up and the entire city partakes in the merry making. A must see is the elaborately adorned elephants on a royal walk.
How to reach: Best way to reach Mysore is to take a flight to Bangalore which will cost you around Rs.3,000 and then drive to Mysore.
What to See: Places to visit in Mysore
Where to Stay:  Best Places to Stay in Mysore
Learning to ski in your younger days comes along with a lot of advantages. Auli is a sought after skiing destination in the snow crusted Himalayan Mountains of Uttaranchal. Providing an all-encompassing view of Mana Parwat, Beethartoli, Nilkanth, Hathi Parbat, Ghori Parbat and Nar Parbat and covered with conifers and oak forest, it is here that you get to ski on a blanket of inviting snow.
Recommended Package: Auli Skiing Tour, Uttarakhand
What to See: Best Places to visit in Auli
Revisit childhood by hopping on a narrow gauged toy train. Cheer away as these colourful boogies make their way through winding trails, colourful landscapes, verdant hillocks and emerald stretches. Darjeeling, Matheran, Ooty and Shimla are some of the place that you can experience this.
Another place that you have to go to appreciate the marvels of nature is the super scenic Spiti Valley, perched high on the ethereal Himalayan Mountains. Since the high altitude here the trip is not suitable for all. Get enamoured by the unique landscapes, quaint and vibrant monasteries along with unique wildlife of snow leopard, wolf, ibex and blue sheep.
Recommended Tour: Spiti Valley Adventure Activities and Tour packages
How to reach: The nearest airport to Spiti is Kullu, you will get lots of cheap flights to Kullu if booked in  advance. From Kullu, you can hire a taxi for Spiti Valley.
Checkout: Spiti Valley Multi Adventure Group Tour
Learn to appreciate brotherhood and religion before you hit thirty. A golden marvel shining brightly and casting its shimmering reflection upon the waters is the Golden Temple in Amritsar. A Gurdwara of Sikhs, it is here that people across all religions come and wait in endless lines to pay homage.
If you are planning a trip to Bhutan , Here are the popular tourist places to visit in Bhutan.
Here are the handpicked  Bhutan Tour Packages for you.
Do something different and adventurous. Instead of the same old means, take a trip to Rajasthan on a bullet. Ride along the rugged deserts and the rustic roads of this place, absorbing the expansive landscape that abounds around you.
What to do: Best tours in Rajasthan

        What to see: 
        Complete list of tourist destination in Rajasthan
      
Where to stay: Best Resorts in Rajasthan
How to reach: Take a flight to Jaipur which can be as low as Rs. 1,000. From Jaipur, you can begin your bike trip.
Check out Reviews: Thrillophilia Bike trip Reviews

        Here is our list of 51 things to do before you turn 30. How many of these have you experienced? Also, if you feel that there are more places to visit before turning thirty, do comment below.
      

        Source – Thrillophilia.
      
