
# Here’s how Wedding Wishlist is changing the wedding gifts dynamics for the millennials

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:08:00+00:00**

Author: **Preksha Jain**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/heres-how-wedding-wishlist-is-changing-the-wedding-gifts-dynamics-for-the-millennials/articleshow/71935633.cms)

In India, weddings are not just life events but borderline major festivals. There’s food, there’s merry-making and grand celebrations for not just the couple but for the extended family and friends as well. These days while most new-age couples are pretty decent with their planning, the one thing that most of them miss out on, is a wedding registry. Yes, having a gift registry is an absolutely crucial element to planning an ‘it’ wedding. That is if you do not want to end up with the same set of colourful crockery twenty times over from one and all! Some estimates for the wedding industry in India suggest that the value of the sector could be over Rs 100,000 crore, with growth rates topping 30%. It also suggests that there are over 900,000 weddings per month that take place in India, with over 10 million marriages celebrated throughout the year. Considerable money is spent on wedding gifts for the couple. One lakh Crore is a very modest evaluation of the amount of money spent on unused wedding gifts in India every year, so to save the newly engaged couple from getting the gifts they will keep aside for re-gifting, Wedding Wishlist added technology to the entire wedding process and made the wedding gift registry, a favourite among the millennials, which is very important for a generation that does not believe in hoarding. 1. Don’t make gifts a chore Now people will want to buy gifts for the couple no matter how much they tell their loved ones that they ‘just want their blessings’. And mostly behind the polite refusals, there’s a tiny sliver of hope that they’ll get the gift that they had been planning to buy anyway as they are setting up their home bases. So isn't it rational to create a registry that will help the couple to curate a gift list for their guests that includes stuff that they actually want and need. Since, no two couples are alike, the gift list reflects the choices and the taste of the couple, and the chances of you giving them something useless drastically reduces, Now isn't that a win-win for all?
Wedding Wishlist
2. Smart and Waste-Free Weddings Wedding gift registry has got its inspiration from the west and has started taking off here too. It’s a favourite among millenials for many reasons. The couple can select any number of products or can share the charity they believe in or opt for a cash card from Wedding Wishlist to create a wishlist to share with their guests, who can then purchase them. Rather than being judged as demanding, wedding gift registry is more of a consideration towards the guests invited. This makes their task of buying something relevant for the couple way easier and convenient. It helps guests know the couple more and understand their needs proactively. Most importantly, this also means that guests won’t have to break their heads in a mindless guessing game on what gift to buy 3. More than just kitchenware Another reason why gift registry is a smart idea for not only the millennial couple but for the guests, is that it gives the attendees a lot of options to choose their presents from. Moving away from the traditional kitchenware and household items, they can now gift by contributing to many other things like a charity the couple supports, or contribute towards setting up their home, or gift/ cash cards for the couple to pick their own gifts from their fav stores themselves. The guests can also contribute to a bigger gift with other friends who wish to contribute to the same and not necessarily buy an entire gift alone. The guests can even contribute to the bride and groom’s honeymoon fund, now that's one thing to fret less on! Well, options there are aplenty. 4. Logistics are taken care of Forget trudging huge boxes that cramp your style on the day of the wedding. The gift that the guest chooses will be packed and delivered to the couple without any pain to the guests.They don't have to manage gift logistics - Broken/stolen gifts, lost tags, etc will be passe now. The guest can sit back and relax while the online store will take care of their gift. Taking into account that wedding is a billion-dollar industry in India, several startups have emerged in this domain to make weddings a hands and hassle-free event.
Wedding Wishlist
5. A hands free experience The couples looking to tie the knot can create their wishlist on Wedding Wishlist and leave everything on them. Wedding Wishlist provides a platform to several such businesses that can help the guest and the couple to decide their wedding in their own unique way. It’s a fairly new concept but today’s generation is way smarter in choosing Wedding gift registry to bridge the gap between gifts received and gifts desired. Weddings are one occasion where even the smallest details receive the biggest attention and keeping this in mind, Wedding Wishlist helps the couple to curate their wedding in a way that will be cherished by all. Some couples might need assistance in setting up their new home, some might want their guests to support a social cause and some might want to get their honeymoon funded but the main idea of going beyond cliche gifts and make the ‘Big Day’ most memorable one remains a priority. So, all the newly engaged couples should take a step forward to promote mass adoption of wedding gift registry this season- after all it’s a sane choice. Disclaimer: This article has been produced on behalf of Wedding Wishlist by Times Internet’s Spotlight team.
