
# Montagues and Capulets: Tory Who ‘Groped Labour MP’ Quits December General Election

Published at: **2019-11-04T11:46:01+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/europe/201911041077219248-montagues-and-capulets-tory-accused-of-groping-labour-mp-quits-december-general-election/)


        The lawmaker has been accused of sexually assaulting men in a Parliament bar on two occasions: in last October and this February. He denies he did anything wrong in both cases, and believes it is a calculated political hit.
      
Scottish Conservative MP Ross Thomson is dramatically standing down as a candidate in the 12 December general election over allegations that he groped a Labour MP in a bar last year.
Thomson, who denies all wrongdoing, said it was “without doubt the hardest decision” he’s ever made.
It comes after Paul Sweeney, Labour MP for Glasgow North East, told the Mail on Sunday that Thomson had groped him at a bar in the Palace of Westminster in October 2018.
A drunk Thomson allegedly fondled Sweeney’s private parts through his clothes and tried to thrust his hands down the front of his trousers.
“I felt paralysed. It was just such a shocking thing. I was in a cold sweat, it was mortifying,” Sweeney recounted, adding he'd decided not to put up a fight because he didn’t want publicity.
Thomson, 32, branded the allegations “politically motivated smears”.
He tweeted: “It think it is telling that Mr Sweeney has chosen this moment, just days out from the beginning of a general election campaign, to abandon the confidential investigation process and take his smear campaign to The Mail on Sunday.”
