
# Travel News: Nicaragua, Morocco and Oban

Published at: **2019-11-02T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **JENNY LEE**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/lifestyle/2019/11/02/news/travel-news-nicaragua-morocco-and-oban-1752448/)

:: The wonders of Nicaragua
AS DAVID Attenborough's exciting new seven-part documentary Seven Worlds One Planet takes to our screens, many of us are dreaming of experiencing the wildlife of these amazing continents.
The North American episode features the natural world of Nicaragua. Set between the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, it is home to a great diversity of wildlife ranging from jaguars to sea turtles and colourful parrots to clever primates.
TravelLocal are offering a 12-day Nicaraguan Wildlife Experience from £1,470 pp, including 11 nights' B&B, transfers, excursions and the services of a local guide. International flights extra. Travellocal.com.
:: Belfast flights take off to North Africa
FLIGHTS have taken off this week from Belfast International to the Moroccan city of Marrakech. This is the latest route from easyJet, who now fly to 36 destinations from Belfast. Flights to the popular Moroccan resort now operate twice a week on Wednesdays and Saturdays throughout the winter.
Holidaymakers can enjoy an eclectic mix of sights, sounds and smells as well as the chance of topping up their tans, as temperature average in the low 20s during the winter. Easyjet.com.
:: Winter value at Scottish Luxury Hotel of the Year
SNAP up the chance to take an off-season break, with a 25 per cent discount, at Scotland's Luxury Hotel of the Year 2020 (The Good Hotel Guide): Airds Hotel & Restaurant, situated in the idyllic west coast village of Port Appin near Oban.
Among the many activities to enjoy are wildlife watching, distillery tours, skiing at Glencoe and day trips to the islands of Mull and Iona.
The hotel is offering a new Luxury Winter Escape from November 1 to the end of March 2020. Prices, subject to availability, are from £125 pppn, based on two sharing for a minimum of three nights, includes breakfast and dinner each day. Tel 01631 730 236, or online at Airds-hotel.com.
:: Keep that holiday feeling alive
AS THE darker days set-in, many of us are dreaming of our next summer holiday. Following research with experimental psychologist, Dr Tali Sharot, from the University College London to find out what triggers 'the holiday feeling', travel firm Tui have bottled those magic ingredients in a new limited edition moisturing lotion.
The lotion, enriched with essence of mojito, sea salt and tropical palms is available free of charge at select TUI retail sores and online at Tui.co.uk/theholidayfeeling.
