
# Ransomware hits Spanish companies sparking WannaCry panic

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:53:00+00:00**

Author: **Catalin Cimpanu**

Original: [ZDNet](https://www.zdnet.com/article/ransomware-hits-spanish-companies-sparking-wannacry-panic/)


        Two victims reported so far: IT consultancy firm Everis and leading radio network Cadena SER.
      
Two major Spanish companies have been hit by ransomware today. Both infections occurred on the same day, sparking memories of the WannaCry outbreak.Spain was one of the first countries alongside the UK, where the WannaCry ransomware infections were spotted for the first time back on May 12, 2017. Affected at the time were Spanish newspaper El Mundo, and internet service provider Telefonica.But today's infections are not part of a global ransomware outbreak. Only two companies have been impacted so far, at the time of writing.The first is Everis, an IT consultancy firm owned by the NTT Data Group. The second is Cadena SER, Spain's largest radio network, which also admitted to the incident via a message on its website. An Everis spokesperson did not immediately reply to a request for comment.Both companies have told employees to shut down computers, and have disconnected their networks from the internet.
Everis is the one that was impacted the most, as the company has more than 24,500 employees across 18 countries. Other Everis branches were also impacted, as the ransomware is believed to have spread via the company's internal network.
