
# A phonecall from Vorsprung durch Tin und Lederhosen Fünfer

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:50:09+00:00**

Author: **Gregg Bakowski**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/04/bayern-munich-niko-kovac-manager-arsene-wenger)


        
          Sign up now! Sign up now! Sign up now? Sign up now!
        
      
The Fiver’s German cousin, Vorsprung durch Tin und Lederhosen Fünfer, was on the blower this weekend, reader, and what a giddy mood he was in! At first, we assumed he’d been on the WeissTin again, because he was just making noises, but then he stopped speaking German and explained that Bayern Munich had given their manager Niko Kovac a kick up die hintern and marched him out of the door marked Do One. And according to Fünfer, all this means that for the first time in yonks the Bundesliga title race may resemble something more than a season-long Lewis Hamilton victory lap. Bayern’s 5-1 shellacking at Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday left last season’s double winners languishing … um … four points off the top with a dire record of … um … 10 wins, three draws, and three losses in all competitions. To add to their shame, they are only five points clear at the top of their Big Cup group, too! Manchester City, Barcelona and Real Madrid all have similar records this season but none of them have hoofed their managers yet, have they?
“The performances of our team in recent weeks and the results have shown us that there was a need for action,” blabbed chief suit Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, while triple-bolting the Allianz Arena exit door behind him. Kovac must have been fuming. “I think this is the right decision for the club at this point in time.” Ah. Perhaps not. Which makes The Fiver believe that not only do we know nothing about human feelings but we also know nothing about just how intensely the humourless Bavarians hate their team being laughed at. It’s hypocritical really, considering they have made ridiculing their players an annual tradition by dressing them like garden gnomes, giving them oversized tankards of Tin and making them pose for Oktoberfest photographs.
The Fiver can’t help but think that the timing of the decision may have had as much to do with the club’s super chief suit Uli Hoeness’s upcoming departure on 15 November as it does with the quality of Bayern’s football. Hoeness, who has never been one to keep his trap shut when headlines can be made, said only two days ago that decisions taken at the club were “always about FC Bayern and not individuals”. Unless that individual is him, which may explain why he tapped into his inner Jack Nicholson, grabbed his axe, and decided to go out swinging. Hoeness now has just enough time to have a say in who replaces Kovac and the chatter on Monday was that there are four leading names: Max Allegri, Ralf Rangnick, Erik ten Hag and, wait for it, Arsène Wenger!
Yes, sorry José, Wenger’s ability to speak German has made him a very real contender for the Bundesliga’s biggest job. In 2017, Wenger’s Arsenal were on the end of two 5-1 thrashings by Bayern Munich in the space of a fortnight. He knows all about turning an ailing mega-club around after being humbled by such a scoreline doesn’t he? Oh.
“The ‘people’ of this curva who made the monkey chants. Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you. In front of your children, wives, relatives, parents, friends and acquaintances... shame” – Mario Balotelli posts a message online after being abused with monkey chants during Brescia’s defeat against Verona. You can read Nicky Bandini’s thoughts on another dark day in Serie A right here.
