
# Smog crisis as 'hazardous' air levels in major city close schools and halt flights

Published at: **2019-11-03T18:13:29+00:00**

Author: **Nadeem Badshah**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/smog-crisis-hazardous-air-levels-20803385)

Air quality in Delhi reached “hazardous” levels as a minister admitted the situation was “unbearable”.
The smog crisis in the Indian capital has led to schools having to be closed, flights being diverted and building work being forced to stop.
Levels of lethal PM2.5 particles in the air are far higher than recommended, and around seven times higher than China’s capital Beijing.
Five million masks were handed out to school children as officials declared a public health emergency.
Delhi's Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, 51, compared the city to a “gas chamber”, blaming field stubble burning by farmers.
 
He said: “Pollution has reached unbearable levels...”
The city's schools have been closed until at least Tuesday, all construction halted for a week and fireworks have been banned.
And from Monday, the city will launch a temporary scheme so only cars with odd or even numbered licence plates can drive on given days, in a bid to slash traffic pollution.
The thick blanket has led to polluted waters in the river Yamuna which is used for rituals by Hindus.
The high pollution levels has been partly caused by farmers in neighbouring states burning crop stubble to clear their fields, creating a lethal cocktail of carbon dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide.
 
Fireworks set off during the Hindu festival Diwali as well as vehicle fumes and construction and industrial emissions have also been blamed.
Mr Kejriwal tweeted: "Pollution has reached unbearable levels across North India.
“Delhi government taken many steps. Delhiites have made many sacrifices.
“Delhi suffering for no fault of theirs.
“Centre should take immediate steps to provide relief. We will support Centre in all initiatives".
In a video posted on Facebook , he added: “"In the last 20 days so much smog has come to Delhi but the media is saying 'don't do blame game'.
“We don't want to do that. It is about our health... our kids... our future. What would we get if we played blame game?"
He added: ”We are just saying... what is the disease? The disease is that air polluted by crop burning comes into Delhi and we have to stop it."
Last month, Mr Kejriwal announced plans to sweep roads mechanically, plant trees and control pollution at 12 hotspots in the city.
India is home to many of the world's most polluted cities.
