
# 'Parents sent me to therapy': you tell us the films that scarred you as kids

Published at: **2019-11-01T05:00:09+00:00**

Author: **Guardian readers**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/oct/31/parents-sent-me-to-therapy-you-tell-us-the-films-that-scarred-you-as-kids)


        After Guardian writers reminisced about the films that caused nightmares in their younger years, you responded with a long list of alternative options
      
I was about four years old, being babysat by my cousin who was more interested in snogging her boyfriend and didn’t realize I was watching it. Freaked me out to such an extent that I would scream my head off whenever we went to the beach and a seagull came within a few feet of me, and even now I can’t stand the evil buggers. Thanks cousin Catherine! steena
My sister and I nagged and nagged our parents to let us watch what may have been the first UK TV showing of Hitchcock’s The Birds. They relented with a “don’t blame us if you have have nightmares”. We were fine up until the moment Rod’s mum finds that guy laid out in his trashed kitchen. The genius of that scene is that there is no big jump shock with a blast of discordant music, just a slow pan to where he lays with both eyes pecked out and a horrified gasp from the poor lady. We had nightmares. ID9879446
This movie literally traumatised me for life. Saw this as a kid and there are scenes engraved on my memory that terrify me still. It’s not really a very scary movie, but I think I was just too young to have seen this and the angst of the unknown threat of these crazy birds haunts me still. I think Hitchcock would be rather thrilled actually. Parmenidas
The Titanic story 1958. No great effects just unrelenting tension and lots of stiff upper lips. I don’t remember much about it, I already knew the ending, but it terrified me and to this day I won’t watch anything about the Titanic. I’m 70. thepree
I guess I was about five years old when one evening I saw Charlie and the Chocolate Factory on TV. My mum had gone out shopping and unbeknownst to me my dad had gone upstairs for a nap. The scene where they drink the fizzy drink and float up towards the spinning blade freaked me out and I screamed in horror only to realise I was alone in an “empty” house. (My dad did not wake up). So I ran outside still screaming, leaving our front door wide open. Opposite our house there were builders who were kind enough to take me in and I waited for what seemed like hours for my mum to come home. tpmv75
A truly great film, for many reasons, but the real terror for me didn’t come from ground breaking special effects of lupine metamorphosis.
The loneliness of a late night tube station, the sheer horror of the masked Nazis slaughtering an all-American family, the strange and creepy emptiness of a London hospital ward at night, and most of all, Brian Glover telling a racist joke over a pint in the Slaughtered Lamb, with an unexplained pentangle on the wall next to the dart board. dylan37
I didn’t see the film, but walked past the local cinema and saw a number of posters promoting it. I was terrified by nightmares for weeks afterwards. jonnyjonny
I saw An American Werewolf in London at a local youth club in Hastings when I was 14, well I say saw, I managed half an hour of it and had to leave the room, I was bricking it!
For a couple of years after, walking back from my friends’ homes involved going around a dark corner garden plot with old trees and mature bushes, very poorly lit, I would literally run as if I was in a 100m race around that corner until I got home!
Even today, werewolves still scare the bejesus out of me. The one in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban was particularly traumatic!! TruthSayer666
My dad let me watch the first half hour when I was about 10, it was another decade before I could bear to watch the rest. steventudor
I still feel nervous outside when the moon is full … My family find it hilarious. Joanne Ogarro
