
# 6 Best Pre-Black Friday 2019 Smart TV Deals At Best Buy

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Forbes Finds**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/06/5-best-pre-black-friday-2018-smart-tv-deals-at-best-buy/)

Black Friday may still be a few weeks away, but many major retailers have announced some incredible deals. In fact, at Best Buy right now you can already take advantage of some incredible TV deals — and if you find something you like, then it may better to simply buy now and relax on Black Friday.A smart TV connects you to much more than just your channels. Using these aptly named devices, you can share content between your smartphone and TV, control various internet-enabled devices around your home, ask Alexa to tune into your most-loved channels and even program it to find your favorite sports teams so you’ll never miss a game. All-in-all, it means a more seamless entertainment experience that you’ll be excited to come home to after a long day at the office.
The Samsung smart TVs on this list are currently available from Best Buy at a heavy discount. With big-ticket items, these cost savings can add up to a whopping $800. 
In order to save you time (and of course, money), we’ve narrowed down this list to five exceptional TVs that have earned high ratings from Best Buy customers. Each TV is built with a stunning 4K display, bringing you cinema-quality picture in the comfort of your own living room. In sizes ranging from 55-inch to 75-inch, you’re bound to find a smart TV that will bring new life (and intelligent life at that) to your space.
Original Price: $1,500
Sale Price: $1,400
It’s a Van Gogh! It’s a Matisse! It’s a… Samsung? As a member of the Samsung Frame Series, this TV turns into a stunning piece of art when not in use. The device will automatically cycle through its digital artwork via its art mode feature, which adapts the image on the screen to display optimally based on room light conditions. While a little gimmicky in its description, in person, it’s hard not to notice this Samsung, even when it’s not in use — and that’s part of the point. With multiple supported HDR formats, Dolby Digital Plus sound and excellent motion clarity, this TV is a showstopper (both when it’s on and idling in the background).

        Shop Now: $1,400
      

        Original Price: $900
      

        Sale Price: $700
      
The Samsung Q60R series is a great way to get access to Samsung’s QLED technology without having to shell out the big bucks on much more expensive offerings. This TV comes with a 4K resolution, support for HDR and offers Samsung’s Quantum Processor 4K. 
For the uninitiated, Samsung’s QLED tech is built to deliver bright, vivid colors and a natural image. While entry-level models in Samsung’s QLED range, like this one, can’t handle black levels as well as the company’s more expensive QLED offerings, their blacks are still deep and relatively natural — which seriously helps deliver quality content. Last but not least, the 55-inch size of the TV is perfect for immersive watching in small-to-medium living rooms. All that to say, if you’re looking for an ultra-high-end TV at a relatively affordable price, this is the one to get.

        Shop Now: $700
      

        Original Price: $1,200
      

        Sale Price: $1000
      
Looking to step things up a little when it comes to TV size? The Q60R is also available in a 65-inch model, which is perfect for larger living rooms and ultra-immersive content. The TV still leverages Samsung’s awesome QLED tech, and like the smaller TV, it still offers the ultra-smart Tizen operating system that allows you to connect the TV to your smart home, watch all your favorite content, and so on.
At $999.99, the 65-inch Samsung Q60R TV is an absolute steal — and well worth considering if you'd like a large TV for a bit less.

        Shop Now: $1000
      

        Original Price: $1,400
      

        Sale Price: $1,200
      
The Samsung Q60R series is great, but if you want to take things to the next level, it’s worth considering the Samsung Q70 Series. The Q70 takes the awesome QLED tech and adds a new technology called local dimming, which makes for much deeper black levels and a higher level of contrast. The end result is that the image will look a lot more natural, especially during night scenes and other dark images. More dimming zones is better, and this TV offers 48.
The TV still offers the awesome smart tech on offer by the other TVs on this list, and at $1,200, it is a great option for a high-end TV. 

        Shop Now: $1200
      

        Original Price: $2,700
      

        Sale Price: $2000
      
65 inches is pretty big, but if you really want to impress, perhaps it’s worth considering a 75-inch TV instead. This 75-inch TV offers all the same awesome features as the 65-inch model but adds a little extra screen — which is perfect for large living rooms and immersive experiences. 
The discounts are bigger here too — while the 75-inch Samsung Q70 is normally available for $2,700, the TV has been discounted by a whopping $700 to $2000.

        Shop Now: $2000
      

        Original Price: $4,300
      

        Sale Price: $3,500
      
The Samsung Q90 series is among the best of the best, so if you want an incredible TV and don’t mind shelling out the cash for it, then the 75-inch Samsung Q90 TV is the way to go. Remember when we talked about the fact that more dimming zones make for better image quality? This TV offers full array local dimming with hundreds of dimming zones, and as a result, you’ll get excellent, deep black levels that look natural all the time. The TV is super smart, offers AirPlay 2 connectivity and boasts a super classy design too.
Normally a hefty $4,300, at only $3,500 the TV may still be expensive, but it’s actually a pretty great deal for the incredible image quality that you’ll get from it.

        Shop Now: $3,500
      
