
# Gareth Southgate calls on stricter UEFA sanctions after Bulgaria's racist abuse let-off

Published at: **2019-11-07T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **John Cross, https://www.facebook.com/johncrossmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/gareth-southgate-calls-stricter-uefa-20835840)

Gareth Southgate has called on UEFA to impose “higher and higher sanctions” after Bulgaria’s let-off following their fans’ racism shame.
European football’s governing body imposed a two-game stadium ban - one of which was suspended for two years - and a paltry £63,000 fine after the shocking scenes in Sofia last month.
England boss Southgate followed the three-step UEFA protocol to the letter after his players suffered racist abuse but resisted walking off in protest.
They were hoping UEFA would then back them by slapping the Bulgarian FA with a strong punishment - but it has been widely condemned as being too lenient.
 
After being asked whether UEFA had let his players down, Southgate said: “We’ve got to continue the sanctions, I think the sanctions are going to have to get higher and higher, but I couldn’t honestly tell you what the right answer for that would be.
“It depends on what we view as being enough. In some respects, if we had thrown Bulgaria out of the competition, that would’ve been easy as well because they’re out. OK, they might have a play-off opportunity.
“In my head, I’ve got their captain, who probably was as brave as anyone on the field that night, frankly, to go over to your own fans when you’re getting thrashed and to try to affect it in the way he did, I thought was a hugely commendable act.
“There’s no question that we look at Bulgaria and think everything there was wrong. There were clearly people in the ground that have no place, as far as we’re concerned, as football people, in football.
“But, those people exist in our stadiums as well and we’re maybe better equipped at stopping them coming into the stadiums and that’s something that, in some countries, they’re going to have to get better at.”
