
# Martin Scorsese Missed The Silver Lining To Superhero Saturation

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Dani Di Placido**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danidiplacido/2019/11/05/martin-scorsese-missed-the-silver-lining-to-superhero-saturation/)

Martin Scorsese admitting that he doesn’t really enjoy movies featuring advanced alien civilizations, Norse gods, super-spies and Spider-Man, simultaneously, wasn’t exactly a surprise.  But his statement sparked weeks of debates between cinephiles and offended Marvel fans, which eventually spiraled to include much of Marvel’s cast and crew, as well as legendary film directors Ken Loach and Francis Ford Coppola. 
In truth, it was Scorsese’s “that’s not cinema,” line that provoked the debate, which was widely misinterpreted as a sneering dismissal of superhero movies. But Scorsese’s concerns were regarding the state of modern cinema, not an attack against those who loved Ant-Man and the Wasp. 
I don’t think that anybody arguing in good faith can deny that Marvel movies are carefully designed to appeal to as wide an audience as possible, an audience that, if Disney had their way, would include every single inhabitant of planet Earth. 
A hamburger, to quote Ken Loach, crafted to appeal to everyone, inevitably results in a bland-tasting product; many hate strong, unfamiliar flavors, but the vast majority can stomach mediocrity. For Marvel, safety is the obvious priority; no one walks out of a Marvel movie sick to their stomach, immensely disturbed by Spider-Man’s slow descent into madness and self-mutilation from the stress of his hyper-violent lifestyle. That’s not the point at all - these are kids movies that appeal to adults, much like Star Wars. 
As Scorsese states in his op-ed for the New York Times, he is deeply passionate about movies that take risks, coming from a time when films weren’t automatically regarded as an art form. And as safe stories continue to reap the financial benefits of blandness, the space left for more unique stories shrinks.

        “The situation, sadly, is that we now have two separate fields: There’s worldwide audiovisual entertainment, and there’s cinema. They still overlap from time to time, but that’s becoming increasingly rare. And I fear that the financial dominance of one is being used to marginalize and even belittle the existence of the other.”
      
His concern is that Marvel’s behemothic presence is training moviegoers to crave the taste of an inoffensive, generic product, while small distributors and unique, diverse filmmakers are slowly being squeezed out of the industry. He seems to be criticizing the market rather than Marvel specifically, but he’s certainly not shaming people who love superhero films. 
I agree with much of Scorsese’s critique; it’s obvious that the cinematic landscape has drastically changed, although, there’s still plenty of great films still out there. I’m sure many Marvel fans are excited to watch films like The Lighthouse and Parasite this month. 
But I’d argue that artistic opportunity also lies in the superhero-saturated landscape, just waiting to be uncovered. A film like Taxi Driver might struggle to find funding and distribution in this climate, but Joker certainly didn’t. (Just to be clear, I am not arguing that the two movies are of comparable depth - they are not). But Joker was a big step forward for superhero films, a massive risk, in context, that massively paid off. 
Instead of playing it safe, Joker created a controversy, using the Batman branding as camouflage for a story that seems to critique the very existence of billionaires, and directly condemns the evils of austerity. 
It’s a far cry from traditional Batman stories, in which Bruce Wayne’s wealth is his superpower, where petty criminals are beaten senseless with a batarang before being flung into Arkham Asylum, where they supposedly belong. 
Joker challenged the black and white perspective of Batman, of all superhero movies, and was heavily rewarded at the box office. Comic book-branding was required to spark that success, but the thing about superheroes is that they offer a great opportunity to examine the nature of power and morality. 
As superhero saturation continues, audiences are surely going to crave more deconstructive takes, the kind of story that Alan Moore pioneered with Watchmen, back in 1986. HBO’s Watchmen is doing something similar (kind of), along with Amazon’s The Boys, while Logan and Deadpool demonstrated the appeal of the anti-hero, and proved that superhero films aimed at adults can be very profitable. 
Formulaic films might be thriving, but Joker is surely going to inspire copycats (not in that sense), and comic book movies aimed at a mature audience are far more likely to critically examine what superheroes and their violent actions really represent; there’s only so many times the same narrative can be recycled before it becomes stale.  
Marvel paints a picture of a world divided into good and evil people, and suggests that evildoers deserve to be physically punished, even murdered, but repeated exposure to that simplistic story might cause cravings for films closer to Joker, and hopefully, films that go further.  
We might see something interesting emerge out of the superhero trend, out of Disney’s dominance, something far more sophisticated than what we’re currently being exposed to. Disney might not be getting any smaller, but the age of Marvel might just inspire a wave of stories that break from the “Good vs. Evil” tradition, and inject moral complexity into mainstream blockbusters. 
There’s a trace of hope on the horizon, and it emerged from a superhero movie, ironically inspired by the work of Martin Scorsese.
