
# Thousands celebrate Washington Nationals World Series championship at parade, rally

Published at: **2019-11-02T19:19:12+00:00**

Author: **David Aaro**

Original: [Fox News](https://www.foxnews.com/sports/washington-nationals-celebrate-world-series-championship-dc-parade-rally)

On Wednesday, the Washington Nationals won a first World Series title for the District of Columbia since 1924. On Saturday, D.C. threw a party 95 years in the making.
Tens of thousands of red-and-white-clad fans lined the city's version of the Canyon of Heroes for a parade along Constitution Avenue and a rally a few blocks from the Capitol.

        
          WASHINGTON NATIONALS PITCHER SEAN DOOLITTLE DECLINES WHITE HOUSE INVITATION
        
      
"[There's] nothing but red and white colors flooding all of downtown D.C., within the parade and surrounding it," lifelong Nationals fan Nate Addlestone told Fox News.
The happy feeling transcended generations. Nationals manager Dave Martinez and general manager Mike Rizzo were seen posing with Sidney Walton, a 100-year-old fan who finally got to see his team win the World Series.
As "Baby Shark, doo doo doo doo doo doo" played on a crisp morning, early risers joined in with the trademark response — arms extended in a chomping motion. Backup outfielder Gerardo Parra chose the tune as his walk-up song in a parental tribute to the musical taste of his 2-year-old daughter. "Baby Shark" became a rallying cry that united Parra's teammates and fans.
"I've met all these people today. I've got new friends," said Kimberly Ballou of Silver Spring, Md.
