
# Wonderwalls: French-Tunisian El Seed’s art with heart

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:59:06+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Arab News](https://www.arabnews.com/node/1577501/lifestyle)

DUBAI: Five years after launching his first label, menswear designer Varoin Marwah will return to Fashion Forward Dubai (FFWD) with his latest collection on Friday.
Marwah's Mystical Shangri-La collection will offer complete wardrobe solution for men, ranging from daywear to beachwear and formal wear.
Varoin Marwah's collection has a strong green color palette and features embroidered leaf pattern motifs. (Supplied)
“My Mystical Shangri-La is an unknown world of the forest. A place where one can desire for anything and achieve it,” he said.
“I hope this collection proves that we need not dress down for summer because I have created  silhouettes that are comfortable enough to be worn in summer and look chic at the same time.”
Marwah studied fashion in New Delhi. (Supplied)
Marwah studied fashion in New Delhi, his home city, before moving to Dubai to launch his label. His designs mix Indian handicraft and textile traditions with this region’s love of luxury.
“As the world moves closer, creativity can no longer be limited to one culture.  The lines of inspiration are blurred and more fluid,” the designer said.
His collection has a strong green color palette and features embroidered leaf pattern motifs.
The designer launched his label in Dubai. (Supplied)
Marwah has dressed young Bollywood actors such as Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor, and is known for his love of extravagance.
Now a Dubai resident, he was nominated by the Dubai Design and Fashion Council to represent the Middle East region at the International Woolmark Prize two years ago.
“Dubai has always been home for me as part of my family have been based here for years. All my visits as a child made me realize that the city has a great mix of people and talents. I cannot imagine being anywhere else.”
