
# Enthusiasm for 2020 election shared among Republicans and Democrats: G

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Blake**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/7/enthusiasm-voting-next-year-shared-among-republica/)

Roughly two-thirds of Americans surveyed recently said they are already “more enthusiastic” about voting in 2020 than in previous elections, the results of a poll showed Thursday.
Conducted last month by Gallup, the poll sought opinions from 1,506 adults spanning the political spectrum about their interest in casting ballots during next year’s contest.
Sixty-four percent of respondents said they are “more enthusiastic” about voting compared with previous elections, 28% said they are “less enthusiastic” and 6% say they have the same level of enthusiasm as prior to previous races, Gallup reported.
Released a year prior to voters deciding whether to reelect President Trump, the result of the poll suggest Americans across the board are largely more enthusiastic about casting ballots in 2020 compared to previous races. Sixty-six percent of Republican respondents said they are more enthusiastic about voting in 2020 that in previous years, compared to 65% of Democratic respondents who answered similarly, according to Gallup.
“This differs from the typical pattern Gallup has seen over the years, whereby those who identify with the political party of the incumbent president have been less enthusiastic about voting than members of the opposing party,” Gallup analyst Justin McCarthy noted. “Though a lot can change in a year, the current politically polarized environment — with added tensions from a congressional impeachment inquiry — could be resulting in voters of all political stripes’ sense that a lot is at stake in their upcoming vote.”
The latest poll was conducted by phone between Oct. 14 and Oct. 31, and the results have a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, according to Gallup.

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
