
# How Many College Dropouts Go Back To School?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Preston Cooper**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/prestoncooper2/2019/11/05/how-many-college-dropouts-go-back-to-school/)

Tens of millions of Americans—about 14% of the country’s population—left college without getting a degree, according to a new report from the National Student Clearinghouse (NSC).Dropping out of college isn’t necessarily a death sentence for a student’s educational career, as the NSC report reminds us. It’s possible to re-enroll in college after taking a hiatus from school. However, this is a path that few students take. Even fewer will reach the finish line.
In 2014, there were 29 million individuals with some college but no degree, more than the entire population of college students enrolled that year. NSC tracked those students and found that just 3.8 million (13%) enrolled in college again during the subsequent five years. Only about half of those have earned a degree or are still enrolled today.
College dropouts tend to have lower earnings than college graduates, and are much closer to high school graduates on the socioeconomic ladder than to those with a bachelor’s degree. If they have student debt, dropouts are far less likely to pay it off.
Most college dropouts (69%) were enrolled in a public community college before leaving school. The 13% of dropouts who re-enroll usually go back to community colleges, though a sizeable minority attend public and private four-year schools.
Online schooling also appears to be a good option for college dropouts who want to go back to school. Though just 4% of dropouts attended online programs, they account for three times that share (12%) among dropouts who went back to school. It’s likely that the flexibility online schools offer is a key factor in attracting students who want to finish a degree, but might be balancing work and family obligations.
It also helps if a student made more progress at his first institution before dropping out. Twenty-four percent of students with at least two years’ worth of college credits re-enrolled within the time frame NSC examined, compared to 13% of dropouts overall. However, the flipside of this is that 76% of students who completed two or more years of college credits did not re-enroll, despite being in a prime position to finish their degrees.
It’s encouraging that two million college dropouts have gone back to school and either completed a degree or are working towards one. But those success stories still represent just a small fraction of the 29 million dropouts in 2014, a number that’s rising every year. The status quo on college completion continues to be dismal.
