
# Burglar duped victim into searching for cat as second raided Wolverhampton home

Published at: **2019-11-01T18:10:06+00:00**

Author: **Jordan Coussins, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/jordan-coussins/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/burglar-duped-victim-searching-cat-17187832)

Detectives have issued an e-fit of a suspected burglar after a homeowner was duped into searching for a lost kitten as another raided their home.
Staffordshire Police believe the man, who has an Irish accent, tricked the elderly victim by pretending he had lost the cat and wanted to search the garden in School Lane, Wolverhampton.
He entered uninvited and convinced the resident to go and have a look at around 8pm on Monday, September 9.
 
But after he had left, the victim discovered that a second person had entered his property and tore through the bedroom before making off with an assortment of mixed cash.
The man is described as white, around 50-years-old, 5ft 5ins – 5ft 6ins tall, of a medium build with dark hair and stubble. He had an Irish accent and wore dark coloured work wear.
It is believed that he then left the area in a white car.
Investigations are on-going and anyone that recognises the man in the e-fit or has any other information about the burglary is asked to email matthew.burton@staffordshire.pnn.police.uk quoting incident number 717 of September 9.
Keep up-to-date with all things Wolverhampton on our  Wolverhampton Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.     
To keep up-to-date with crime in your community, join the  Black Country Crime Watch  Facebook group where you will be alerted to any suspicious or criminal behaviour happening in your area.
