
# Guide: Pokémon GO 'A Colossal Discovery' - How To Purchase A Premium Ticket And Regigigas Quest Walkthrough

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Woor**

Original: [Nintendo Life](http://www.nintendolife.com/news/2019/11/guide_pokemon_go_a_colossal_discovery_-_how_to_purchase_a_premium_ticket_and_regigigas_quest_walkthrough)

Pokémon GO is holding its first global premium event – a paid, ticketed event you can play anywhere in the world that will give you exclusive early and easy access to the legendary Pokémon Regigas and a raft of other perks.

        Tickets are currently on sale and the first time-zones have entered the event period.
      
Our guide covers everything you need to know to participate in the event, what’s on offer for paying and non-paying players, and a full walkthrough for the included ‘A Colossal Discovery’ special research quest.
If you already have your ticket, skip straight to our walkthrough.

            What Does Your ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Ticket Get You?
          

            Free Event Details – November 1 to November 4
          

            How to Get Regigigas in Pokémon GO – ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Walkthrough
          
Tickets have now gone live. They will only be available until Saturday November 2 2019 at 17:00 in your local time zone.
Once the pass is purchased, to receive the ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Special Research quest, you must open Pokémon GO between Saturday, November 2 2019 from 11:00 to 19:00 local time. As with all Special Research quests, you can take as long as you want to complete the ’A Colossal Discovery’ story, though bear in mind that specific tasks may be more difficult as changes are made to the game through the year.
In their announcement blogpost, Niantic recommended "trying your best to complete the research on Saturday, November 2, 2019, from 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. in your local time zone", "for an optimal gameplay experience".
The ticket is priced at $7.99/£7.99 and for the first time, must be purchased with real world currency (not the in-game currency – Pokécoins – which are partly available for free).
The tickets can be found in the in-game shop. In the main Poké-ball menu, hit ‘shop’ and scroll to find the ticket.
The headline attraction of the ‘A Colossal Discovery’ pass is the release of Sinnoh legendary Regigigas through a special research quest. This quest is similar to those for Mew, Celebi and Jirachi, aside from the fact that only those who purchase a pass will receive it.
Regigigas (#486) is a Normal-type Pokémon. Therefore its sole type-weakness are Fighting-type Pokémon. It is resistant to Ghost-type attacks.
Significantly, Niantic have confirmed that Regigigas will start appearing in the high-difficulty EX Raid series ‘in November’, meaning that there is still a free route to obtaining the Pokémon (though the premium pass gets your access sooner and far more easily considering the difficulty and selection criteria of EX Raids).
As with all story quests you will accumulate items, XP, stardust and Pokémon encounters at each stage of the quest. See our ‘A Colossal Discovery’ Walkthrough’ section for more details.
‘A Colossal Discovery’ participants can receive up to 10 free Raid Passes when spinning Gym photo-discs for a limited period (normal rules apply in that you can only carry one at a time, but the daily limit of one free pass per spin will be relaxed).
To accompany the release of ‘A Colossal Discovery’, Niantic will be running a commemorative event for all players, focussed around the Regi-Trio that Regigigas is considered the ‘trio master’ of. This will run from Friday, November 1 2019 at 13:00 to Monday, November 4 2019 at 13:00 PDT
The legendary titans, commonly called the Regi Trio or ‘Regis’ will appear for everyone to catch in 5-star raids. In the mainline games these three Pokémon are usually involved in the process of catching Regigigas, hence their involvement in this event. Their types and type weaknesses are as follows:
All three legendaries will also appear in shiny form for the first time.
Billed as Pokémon that are good counters to the Regi-trio, expect to see more Geodudes, Magnemites, Swinubs, Arons and Spheals in the wild. Aerodactyl, Shuckle, Sneasel, Skarmory, Snorunt and Beldum will be hatching more frequently in eggs.
With the event now live in its first time-zones, we now know that this is a four step event featuring the following quests and rewards:
During the event hours, Regirock, Regice and Registeel will be found in high numbers as five-star raids – they will be your main target during this event, with the additional requirement of catching and evolving a number of Pokémon at each stage – Rock-type in this instance.
(Advice upfront: you are going to need to have all three Regis for step four – so if possible, prioritise getting at least one of each with your extra raid passes).
Step 2 sees you repeat very similar steps to the above, only with ice-type Pokémon in quests and rewards.
Step 3 is the same again, though steel-type Pokémon are involved here.
We are anticipating a change to be made to the requirements (and potentially the rewards) for the quest once event times expire. Please check back for more updates when further information is available.
