
# I’ve never been good at banter but I can't deny insulting someone is a great way to bond

Published at: **2019-11-07T05:04:25+00:00**

Author: **Deirdre Fidge**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/nov/07/ive-never-been-good-at-banter-but-i-cant-deny-insulting-someone-is-a-great-way-to-bond)


        Sledging, ribbing, teasing – these are all subjective terms, so you have to be careful it doesn’t become bullying
      
I’ve never been good at banter. If you are, you know my type: when a group full of friends is playfully teasing each other, I’m the one laughing a little bit too loudly, eyes brimming with tears.
Maybe it’s my over-sensitivity, or the fact I spent my childhood in Canada, where I never noticed these dynamics (compared to Australia, where my Aussie relatives would regularly take the piss out of me while my face flushed), but I’ve always been bad at it. Growing up, I never understood it.
I’m not the only one, either, a recent study showed that 48% of Australian students felt harmed by verbal “jokes” (also referred to as “peer aggression”). Conversely, these comments were experienced by others but dismissed as “fun, joking around or banter”.
Unsurprisingly, there is no clear line. The word “banter” is tossed around on dating profiles as a desirable trait and crops up everywhere from friendship groups to sporting teams. Earlier this year, Australian cricket captain Justin Langer said “If I play Uno with my daughter there’s lots of banter. We sort of sledge each other but we don’t abuse each other.”
A father and daughter teasing one another over a card game is fun. In a workplace, of course, things become murkier. And nobody wants to be a buzzkill. Lawyer and manager of a commercial law firm Lisa Klug alludes to the grey area of joking in the workplace, saying intention is irrelevant if someone is deemed to have been bullied. She notes the Australian guidelines in each state that highlight when behaviour becomes bullying (some examples of behaviours crossing the line include pranks, humiliation through sarcasm, cruel nicknames, teasing).
Sledging, ribbing, teasing – these are all subjective terms. And while it may be slightly more black and white in a workplace, it’s still murky. One person’s banter is another person’s bullying. As adults, we hopefully become aware of the difference between a social and professional environment. But when you’re a kid at school, that’s years away, and the school ground is your entire world.
I threw a few questions to writer and comedian James Colley to get the viewpoint of a Professional Funny Man (™). James agreed that it’s not easy to draw a line between shitty comments and “mucking around”, but “just because it isn’t easy doesn’t mean it’s not important,” he told me. From a stand-up’s point of view, “a good comedian in any sense can read their audience and if the bit you are doing is purely for your own joy and not for theirs then it’s no longer a good bit.”
For non-professionals, if this kind of communication doesn’t come naturally, like anything – practice makes perfect. James tells me his humour came from being a defence mechanism (hard same).
“Learning the difference between a good laugh and a bad laugh takes time and it takes self-reflection. I wouldn’t be where I am today were I not standing on a pile of regret.” Cheers to that!
Despite my fragile skin, I can’t deny that playfully insulting – or being insulted by – someone is a great way to bond. When done correctly, it’s fun
I recently realised my friends at work were my friends when we could take the piss out of one another. It’s the sort of conversation I couldn’t transpose verbatim because it would make us look barbaric. I started to, but nothing ruins a joke faster than earnest analysis, and besides – who has the word count to explain why someone dry-retching when I mention I’m bisexual is so funny?
Maybe growing up is part of it, not necessarily ageing, but reaching a stage where you know who you are and can therefore take yourself less seriously. I’m no longer insecure about my sexuality, so can joke about it. Perhaps for some lucky young people they reach this stage of self-discovery at school, for others (like me) it’s a lot later.
Enjoying banter doesn’t mean everything is a joke, either. We all know the feeling of someone dismissing an offensive remark as “having a laugh” – to summarise, it sucks. Whether it’s a stand-up’s punchline or friend’s off-hand comment, these things can hurt.
Empathy, sense of self, context. Reading cues from other people and knowing when to apologise are key components to being a decent human. All these concepts are generally easier to navigate within friendships – is this why banter works so well with mates?
James agrees that familiarity is part of what makes good banter good, but that it doesn’t all boil down to friendship. “Familiarity helps, for sure. There’s an element of ‘woah, we don’t know each other like that’ when it’s a stranger. I think what’s most important is that it’s fun for both parties.”
And if you’re the only one laughing ... “When it’s one-sided, I don’t think it is banter. It may disguise itself as such but it’s destructive.”
• Deirdre Fidge is a writer whose work has appeared on SBS Comedy, Junkee, the ABC and the Sydney Morning Herald
