
# GMB viewers raging over classic Christmas song being rewritten

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:05:29+00:00**

Author: **Jess Morcom**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/celebs-tv/gmb-viewers-raging-over-classic-3498325)

Good Morning Britain viewers were furious this morning after it was announced that a classic Christmas song is to be rewritten.
Presenters Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid told viewers how singer John Legend has re-written 'Baby It's Cold Outside' in the wake of the #MeToo era.
Baby It's Cold Outside, written in 1944, takes the form of a back-and-forth conversation between a man and a woman.
It was suggested one line Say what's in this drink? (No cabs to be had out there)" - could refer to date rape.
Some of the lyrics changed include 'the neighbours might think' to 'what will may friends think' and 'no cabs to be had out there' to 'it's your body and your choice'.
"John Legend has rerecorded the controversial lyrics because they think it’s not appropriate," Susanna said.
"What is wrong with these people?" Piers asked.
"John Legend, you virtue signaling horror story and that dreadful wife of his, what’s her name? Chrissy Teigen.
"They’ve sat there plotting how to ruin a great Dean Martin classic just in time for Christmas."
Viewers took to Twitter to express their frustration, claiming that there is 'no need' to change the classic.
"Oh my days yawn," one viewer wrote.
"These people who actually sit and listen to these songs and then get offended need a life. #GMB"
"they're re-worded the 'it's cold outside' song?," another said.
"Why are people such snowflakes these days! It's a flirty song, it was okay back in the day and it's okay today end of. I'm offended that it is being re-written."
A third added: "Christ sake have people nothing better to moan about then song lyrics and being so offended over them? If you don't like the lyrics or song don't listen it this is getting ridiculous now #GMB"
Another viewer chipped in saying: "You can’t change the words to classic Christmas songs, just no! #GMB They’ve been perfectly fine for years. People are seriously getting to sensitive these days! What a joke."
This isn't the first time that a heated discussion about the original version of the Christmas hit has taken place on the show.
Last year, Piers tore into 'radical feminists' when the song was banned on a number of radio stations around the world.
"Radical feminists like you want to suck the joy out of everything and make this look like sexual assault," he said at the time.
"She gave consent, she stayed. Do you not read the lyrics? She’s flirting with him."

        
          Good Morning Britain airs weekdays at 6am on ITV
        
      
