
# Inner-city residents 'seething' over service cuts, possible pool closures: councillor

Published at: **2019-11-06T04:16:58+00:00**

Author: **Meghan Potkins, Calgary Herald**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/inner-city-residents-seething-over-service-cuts-possible-pool-closures-councillor)

City staff will spend another couple of weeks looking at potential strategies to keep two inner-city pools open next year following a decision by council’s finance committee Tuesday.
Coun. Evan Woolley said he was disappointed that administration was unable to come up with any alternatives to closing the Beltline and Inglewood pools after spending weeks in consultation with user groups and potential operating partners.
Administration says it currently costs about $1.2 million per year to operate the pools and the city expects the city to save $800,000 with their closure — though the city will continue to pay $400,000 annually to maintain the shuttered facilities.
Woolley pointed out that 50 per cent of the cuts to recreation budgets in 2019 were felt in just two inner-city neighbourhoods.
“In the last two years, we’ve closed the police station, we’ve closed the only swimming facility (and) we’re looking at avoiding the Beltline completely potentially as part of the Green Line cost (adjustments),” said Woolley.
The Ward 8 council member also expressed frustration that the cuts are coming on the heels of property tax hikes in 2019 that helped to pay for new suburban development: “I can tell you that there is a seething frustration in inner-city communities when they are starting to wonder why it is that a whole bunch of brand new infrastructure is built in new communities and actively developing communities and their services are getting cut.”
Committee members ultimately elected to send city staff back to the drawing board to review various options, though some council members hinted that there is little hope the pools can be saved.
City staff warned Tuesday that continuing service at the two pools could not be done without increasing recreation budgets. Even with the help of a third party to operate the pools, staff said additional operating and capital funding would be required.
“I don’t know that anything will happen to change the recommendation,” said Mayor Naheed Nenshi Tuesday. “Council just has to make decisions: is it worth this amount of money to provide rec facilities for people in the inner-city?”
Unless a solution can be found, both pools are slated to close on Dec. 31.
mpotkins@postmedia.comTwitter: @mpotkins
