
# Boxer’s Head Splits Open After Nasty Headbutt And Fans Think They Can See Skull

Published at: **2019-11-03T16:33:42+00:00**

Author: **Julia Banim**

Original: [UNILAD](https://www.unilad.co.uk/sport/boxers-head-splits-open-after-nasty-headbutt-and-fans-think-they-can-see-skull/)


        Boxer Marlen Esparza has been left with a horrific gash on her forehead following a bloody grudge battle against Seniesa Estrada.
      
Advertisements
Esparza, 30, incurred the injury after an accidental headbutt from Estrada in the fifth round of their Las Vegas match. She continued to fight, banging heads with Estrada on numerous occasions and making the gory split even worse.
Blood was seen pouring down Esparza’s face as she battled on, restricting her vision and ultimately leading to her losing her World Boxing Association (WBA) flyweight world title.
Advertisements
Eventually a ringside medic took a look at the grisly wound, and referee Robert Byrd made the decision to wave off the bout before the tenth round.
The decision then went to the judges, with Estrada winning the title by unanimous technical decision, 90-81, 89-82, 88-83.
Estrada could be seen celebrating following her victory, but Esparza has since expressed surprise and disappointment at the judges’ decision, having believed she was winning.
The sight of Esparza’s gaping head injury has led to horrified shudders amongst boxing fans, many of whom believe they could actually see her skull exposed beneath the ripped skin.
Advertisements
Described as ‘gut churningly bad’ and ‘a nightmare’, many simply couldn’t conceive of how tough-as-nails Esparza had managed to power through another four rounds after the brutal headbutt.

        One Twitter user grimaced:
      

        Another tweeted:
      
Advertisements
