
# Singer Chris Brown holds high-end yard sale at his Los Angeles home

Published at: **2019-11-07T06:55:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Breaking News](https://www.breakingnews.ie/showbiz/singer-chris-brown-holds-high-end-yard-sale-at-his-los-angeles-home-962378.html)

Singer Chris Brown has held a high-end yard sale at his Los Angeles home, with hundreds of fans, gawkers and bargain-hunters waiting for hours to try to get a piece of the singer’s stuff.
Brown posted a flyer on his Instagram and Twitter accounts on Tuesday night that included the address of his suburban mansion in the Tarzana neighbourhood of the San Fernando Valley.
“Featuring significantly marked-down high-end items,” the flyer said.
Brown captioned the posts “DA CRIB … 2 day event” and included a heart emoji.
Brown burst onto the music scene as a teen in 2005, won a Grammy Award in 2011 for best R&B album and remains a major hitmaker.
But he has also in the past decade been nearly as well known for a stream of highly publicised run-ins with law enforcement, starting with a felony assault of then-girlfriend Rihanna in 2009 to which he pleaded guilty.
The crowd of hundreds gathering for the yard sale were joined by news trucks documenting the scene and news helicopters hovering overhead.
A line that stretched down the sidewalk for several blocks ended at a driveway filled with large canvas canopies shading rows of clothes.
Some said they had driven from as far away as Arizona and didn’t care what they walked away with as long as it belonged to Brown.
Symone Maddox of San Bernardino, California, said she took the day off work to check out the yard sale, hoping to get hats and hoodies. “I already told my boss. She told me to bring something back,” Maddox said.
The crowd appeared orderly, remaining mostly on a sidewalk. Police said they had received no complaints.
A news release said the singer plans to donate some of the proceeds to unspecified charities. It was not clear whether he would make an appearance.
The same home attracted reporters and helicopters to a very different scene in 2016, when Brown and police had an hours long standoff that ended in his arrest on suspicion of assault. Brown’s attorney denied any wrongdoing, and police did not file any charges.
Brown was most recently arrested early this year in France along with two other people on suspicion of aggravated rape and drug infractions – allegations that Brown and his lawyer have denounced as false and defamatory.
Brown was released and allowed to leave the country without charges being filed as Paris prosecutors continued their investigation.
