
# Ralph Goes Undercover in New The Flash Episode 6.06 Stills

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:23:30+00:00**

Author: **Tudor Leonte**

Original: [SuperHeroHype](https://www.superherohype.com/comics/471130-new-the-flash-episode-6-06-stills)

A new promo for the upcoming Episode 6 of The Flash Season 6 has made its way to the web. Moreover, The CW has released a batch of promotional photos featuring Barry and Ralph going undercover and the return of Ultraviolet.
The synopsis of the next episode of The Flash reads: “Barry (Grant Gustin) turns his attention to prepping Elongated Man (Hartley Sawyer) for life after Crisis and without The Flash, but Ralph ultimately teaches Barry a lesson. Meanwhile, Cecile (Danielle Nicolet) faces her own moment of self-discovery while helping a recuperated Chester P. Runk (guest star Brandon McKnight) reclaim his identity.”
Danielle Panabaker directed the “License To Elongate” episode written by Thomas Pound & Jeff Hersh. You can watch the new Flash Season 6 promo below. Then you can check a set of promotional photos for the upcoming episode in the gallery below.
Grant Gustin stars in the series as Barry Allen/The Flash. Candice Patton co-stars as Iris West-Allen, with Danielle Panabaker as Caitlin Snow/Killer Frost, Carlos Valdes as Cisco Ramon/Vibe, Hartley Sawyer as Ralph Dibny/Elongated Man, as well as Tom Cavanagh as Harrison Wells, and Jesse L. Martin as Detective Joe West.
Greg Berlanti executive produces the series, along with Sarah Schechter and Eric Wallace. Bonanza Productions Inc. produces The Flash together with Berlanti Productions and Warner Bros. Television.
The Flash Episode 6.06 will air on Tuesday, November 12 on The CW.
