
# David Warner stays unbeaten as Australia complete T20 series sweep

Published at: **2019-11-01T11:53:47+00:00**

Author: **Australian Associated Press**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2019/nov/01/david-warner-fires-again-as-australia-complete-t20-series-sweep)

Australia completed a crushing 3-0 Twenty20 series clean sweep against Sri Lanka, the home side cruising to a comfortable seven-wicket win in game three at the MCG.
In warm conditions on Friday night, Australia made 145-3 after sending the visitors in and restricting them to 142-6 from their 20 overs.
Another half-century to player-of-the-match and series David Warner allowed Australia to clinch the win with 14 balls to spare in front of 28,568 fans.
Warner, who was not dismissed in three innings this series, was unbeaten on 57 off 50 balls, with four fours and a six.
On the back of his 100 in Adelaide and a 60 in Brisbane, Warner was the highest run-scorer in the series with 217, although he did benefit from some luck on Friday when he was dropped on 12.
Sri Lanka enjoyed a bright patch with three wickets through the middle overs, but never looked like causing an upset.
Skipper Aaron Finch, who was dropped on 15, departed in the ninth over for 37 from 25 deliveries. He has scored the most T20I sixes of any Australian, moving past Shane Watson, after clearing the MCG ropes three times.
Fans hoping for some Steve Smith magic were left disappointed when he was well caught at mid-wicket by Lakshan Sandakan off the bowling of Nuwan Pradeep for 13.
Ben McDermott, who came in when Glenn Maxwell stepped away to concentrate on his mental health, failed to grasp his opportunity at No 4, trapped in front by Lasith Malinga for five.
Ashton Turner was the other batsman at the crease at the end, making a handy 22 from 15 deliveries.
Sri Lankan No 3 Kusal Perera hit his team’s highest score of the series with a well-made 57 from 45 deliveries, including four fours and one six, before he holed out trying to push the run rate off Pat Cummins’ bowling.
Cummins was the pick of the Aussie bowlers with 2-23 from four overs, with Kane Richardson (2-25) and Mitchell Starc (2-32) also taking two wickets each.
The seven-wicket win follows a 134-run victory in the opening clash in Adelaide and a nine-wicket thumping in Brisbane.
