
# Cheeky burlesque classes are coming to Rutherglen

Published at: **2019-11-05T16:58:34+00:00**

Author: **Jonathan Geddes, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/jonathan-geddes/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/cheeky-burlesque-classes-coming-rutherglen-20818068)

The organiser of a new dance class coming to Rutherglen believes it will tear a strip off the competition.
And Victoria Watson feels her cheeky burlesque classes will help to empower women too.
Victoria has been running the lessons in Bellshill for more than a year, and they will commence in Rutherglen this Saturday.
The 24-year-old – who goes by the stage name of Frivolity Vixen – spent her early childhood in Rutherglen. She first became interested in burlesque through visits to popular Glasgow club night Club Noir.
After taking part in workshops organised by the club, Victoria, who has been a keen dancer since childhood, discovered she had a passion for the saucy style.
She said: “I’d always danced, but obviously as you get older you start to do it less and less.
“I really enjoyed doing it, and it allowed me to carry on dancing. It’s really gone from there and was something I wanted to do more of.”
Some years later, Victoria, who is a logistics specialist with an IT company in her day job, decided it was time to establish her own classes.
Victoria currently holds two in Bellshill, with 24 women in each, and she believes there are some misconceptions about the dance form that need to be cleared up.
She explained: “People sometimes hear burlesque and think it’s the same as strippers, but it’s not – we are dancers first and foremost, and it’s very tongue in cheek.
“Yes, it’s naughty but it’s without really exposing anything and it is more about having fun than anything else; from the dances to coming up with stage names.
“This is something that is suitable for all ages, shapes and sizes.”
Victoria says that many women who take up burlesque go on to develop improved confidence, while also socialising more.
She added: “This can be really empowering.
“You get young mums coming along who have had a health issue or perhaps who, have become a bit socially isolated since giving birth, and they feel that they are part of a family now because this brings them together.
“I think that with burlesque it can give women their femininity back, because when you are performing it makes you feel good about yourself, about your body and who you are.
“There’s a confidence you gain as you do this – you have girls who at the first class are sitting terrified at the back and then they’ll be up doing a striptease a few weeks later. 
“I hope I can bring some of that to Rutherglen.”
As for her stage name, there’s an obvious reason for that...
“Well, Vixen comes from Victoria, and Frivolity is because my mum always said I was too frivolous growing up.”
Victoria’s first class will take place this Saturday, at 10am in the No 18 venue on Farmeloan Road.
