
# Dems choose star witnesses for impeachment probe

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:08:47+00:00**

Author: **Melanie Zanona**

Original: [POLITICO](https://www.politico.com/newsletters/huddle/2019/11/07/dems-choose-star-witnesses-for-impeachment-probe-487618)

Presented by

        with help from Zachary Warmbrodt
      
COMING SOON TO A CONGRESS NEAR YOU — Grab your popcorn, folks: House Democrats announced their first round of public hearings in the impeachment probe, marking a new phase in the inquiry and teeing up what are sure to be some historic and closely-watched moments in our nation’s history. So, who are the Democrats’ star witnesses and why do investigators think they will make a compelling case to the American people? Here’s a look at the lineup:

        The big picture: here’s what we've learned from the five deposition transcripts that have been released thus far, via Andrew: https://politi.co/2WOKjyM.
      
So... will the GOP be able to score any points during these hearings? Taylor told investigators that he didn’t hear directly from Trump’s mouth that there was a quid pro quo — so expect Republicans to hammer home that point when they get a chance to cross examine witnesses. And that underscores the biggest challenge for Democrats as they try to connect the dots in the Ukraine saga: they need to directly tie the president to Giuliani and the quid pro quo … and avoid another Mueller hearing flop.
Meanwhile, ahead of the public hearings, the White House has hired two new aides dedicated to impeachment, per WSJ’s Michael C. Bender. The story: https://on.wsj.com/2JXF5LW.
And here is what's happening today: “Pence aide -- who was concerned about July 25 call -- will testify if subpoenaed,” per CNN: https://cnn.it/2JYdeuO.
Related reads: “House GOP Lawyer Tried to Out Whistleblower in Bill Taylor Interview,” by The Daily Beast’s Erin Banco, Jackie Kucinich and Scott Bixby: http://bit.ly/2JZVaAy; and “How ‘Congressman-1’ Got Pulled Into Rudy Giuliani’s Ukraine Scheme,” from HuffPo’s Matt Fuller and Paul Blumenthal: http://bit.ly/33tFxck.
SCENES OUTSIDE THE SCIF — After a closed-door deposition yesterday, Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) initially declined to talk to an NBC News reporter who was doing a live TV hit. But as soon as Meadows heard the reporter suggest Republicans were struggling to defend Trump, he immediately did a 180 and came back to address the cameras. The video.
THE TRIAL OF THE CENTURY — So, exactly how will an impeachment trial go down in the Senate? Well, it all depends on Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer, write Burgess and Bres. The two congressional leaders need to set the ground rules, such as what kind of amendments or witnesses to consider, how long the proceedings will go on and what kind of evidence can be introduced — all of which will shape the trial and its fallout.
White House counsel Pat Cipollone has begun reaching out to Senate Republicans to discuss the rules and procedures for the proceedings, according to GOP senators and aides. And Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) met with McConnell and Schumer to request a senators-only meeting to hash out a deal on how to proceed with a Trump trial. In 1999, the Senate unanimously passed an impeachment rules package, which seems nearly impossible to imagine occurring in today's Senate.
Yet senators are trying to be optimistic. “There’s no reason we can’t come up with an agreement. .… I’m open to trying to be fair and down the middle and letting the facts come out and be nonpartisan,” Schumer said in an interview on Wednesday. “There’s no reason we can’t come up with good, fair and honest rules.” The dispatch: https://politi.co/33q1itP.
Related read: “Trump and McConnell fall short in Kentucky — but remain steady allies in Washington,” by WaPo’s Seung Min Kim and Josh Dawsey: https://wapo.st/2PVPCuF.
EYEBALL EMOJI … “Trump wanted Barr to hold news conference saying the president broke no laws in call with Ukrainian leader,” via WaPo’s Matt Zapotosky, Josh Dawsey and Carol D. Leonnig: https://wapo.st/32og6YC.
GOOD MORNING! Welcome to Huddle, the play-by-play guide to all things Capitol Hill, on this Thursday, November 7.
Your host is reading this story about a reporter who attempts to drink everything at an all-you-can-drink bar and this article from another reporter who got to attend a live taping of a Bravo TV show, which got me thinking — how does one score that assignment? Asking for a friend…
WEDNESDAY’S MOST CLICKED: Bres and your Huddle host’s report on GOP leadership wanting to move Rep. Jim Jordan to the House Intel Committee for the impeachment hearings was the big winner.
THE SENATE IS NOW SESSIONS — It’s official: former Attorney General Jeff Sessions will run for his old Senate seat in Alabama, scooped The Hill’s Juliegrace Brufke and Al Weaver, jumping into a crowded GOP primary field. Sessions has already made moves to hire campaign staff and will make his announcement tonight on Fox News, where he plans to “come out forcefully in support of Trump’s agenda while denouncing Democrats’ impeachment efforts.” Much more: http://bit.ly/32owdFm.
The big question is: how involved does Trump get? And does he actively try to tank Sessions’ primary bid? The president never forgave Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia probe and has made his disgust for his former AG well known. And Trump was taking digs at Sessions just last week during a private House GOP fundraiser, as your Huddle host reported. Keep an eye on Trump’s Twitter feed tonight after the announcement goes live.
Fun fact … via John R. Parkinson of ABC News: “@jeffsessions' announcement will come exactly one year after President Trump fired his former Attorney General (11/7/18).”
Introducing POLITICO’s Energy Podcast sponsored by Chevron: Your daily, five-minute update on the latest in energy and environmental politics and policy from POLITICO’s expert ten-person team. Ways to listen: Via your email – click the link in the POLITICO Morning Energy newsletter, or subscribe for free – click here and follow the link for your podcast player.
OVERSIGHT UPDATE — Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) has bowed out of the race for the House Oversight Committee gavel — meaning that’s one fewer contender challenging Rep. Carolyn Maloney of New York for the coveted post. At least one other Democrat has already mounted a challenge, Rep. Stephen Lynch of Massachusetts, who has pitched his national security background.
Virginia Rep. Gerry Connolly has also been actively seeking out advice from his colleagues and attending candidate forums as he weighs a bid. Democrats say they want to avoid an ugly internal fight amid the impeachment probe, and many say seniority will likely win out. But the contest is still not quite locked up for Maloney. Connolly supporters, for instance, see him as a stronger attack dog against Republicans like Rep. Jim Jordan. The story from Sarah and Heather: https://politi.co/2PSvl9k.
COUNTER PROGRAMMING — Trump will meet with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan next Wednesday — the same day as the first televised hearing in the impeachment probe. But a key Senate panel has agreed to hold off on bipartisan legislation sanctioning Turkey for its invasion of northern Syria until after the visit, report Bres and Burgess. The reason? To avoid a diplomatic flap. "I don't think it's a good idea to have a hearing on that bill while [Erdogan] is here," said Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Jim Risch (R-Idaho). Much more: https://politi.co/36LrWzs.
In other Senate news … “Trump's embattled judicial pick faces his last chance,” via Marianne: https://politi.co/2WRNplo.
DEM OUT THE DOOR — Rep. Pete Visclosky, the third most senior Democrat in the House, will not seek reelection in 2020. The longtime Indiana lawmaker chairs the powerful defense appropriations panel, where he oversees a budget of more than $700 billion. Visclosky is now the third senior appropriator to retire this year, following House Appropriations Committee chief Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.) and Rep. Jose Serrano (D-N.Y.), who also chaired a subcommittee. The deets from Sarah and Connor O’Brien: https://politi.co/2oRAHXk.
ALL WORK AND NO PLAY — Rep. Katie Porter (D-Calif.) is privately trying to rally support for a big change to the House calendar next year: longer weeks in Washington. Porter’s staff on Tuesday asked Democrats to sign a letter that would urge Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) to arrange the schedule next year so that lawmakers would spend two consecutive, five-day work weeks at the Capitol each month followed by two back-to-back weeks in their districts.
“This would allow members to focus on legislative business while in Washington, D.C. and district work while back home, rather than traveling long distances for alternating three-to four-day increments,” the freshman lawmaker said in the draft letter, which was seen by POLITICO. The schedule, she added, would also be better for members with children and those from rural or distant areas. A Porter spokesperson said the letter was meant to be private and declined to comment further. A Hoyer aide said the majority leader looked forward to reviewing the letter and will keep her recommendations in mind.
WOMEN RULE SUMMIT 2019 - It’s been a landmark year, but there’s still work to do. More women are serving in elected office, leading top corporations and rising to the top of their respective fields. As we prepare to what’s next in 2020, how will women continue to harness this momentum and propel this generational shift forward? At the Women Rule Summit on Dec. 10, POLITICO will explore the possibilities with a full day of empowering discussions and networking with inspiring, game-changing women. Request an invite today.
Jenni Geurink has been promoted to press secretary for the majority on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
The House is out.
The Senate gavels in at 10 a.m. to resume consideration of the nomination of Lee Philip Rudofsky to be U.S. district judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas. At 11:45 a.m., the Senate will take two roll call votes.
Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) holds a news conference on the Foreign Relations Committee report on humanitarian protections at 12:30 p.m. in S-115.
WEDNESDAY’S WINNER: Peggy Camerino was the first person to correctly guess that Reps. Peter Blue and Peter Torkildsen were the last House Republicans to represent Massachusetts, back in 1996.
TODAY’S QUESTION: From Peggy: Which current Republican senator voted "not guilty" on both impeachment charges against President Clinton? First person to correctly guess gets a mention in the next edition of Huddle. Send your best guess my way: mzanona@politico.com
GET HUDDLE emailed to your phone each morning.
