
# Media plans drawn: the battle to influence the UK electorate

Published at: **2019-11-07T07:00:46+00:00**

Author: **Jim Waterson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2019/nov/07/media-plans-drawn-the-battle-to-influence-the-uk-electorate)


        From Facebook to WhatsApp and viral soundbites, the 2019 campaigns are as much about algorithms as policies
      
Facebook adverts, commercial radio bulletins and WhatsApp groups are likely to form key parts of the media battle during the UK general election as politicians look for new ways of campaigning amid the changing landscape of the news media, insiders say.
According to political advisers, declining print newspaper circulations, falling audiences for broadcast television bulletins, and a febrile online environment may lead to a focus on divisive “culture war” issues forcing the public to pick a side.
This is likely to come amid a cacophony of news that has little to do with what the parties see as the main topics of the day. Here’s how that might play out.
Although television news has been almost completely abandoned by younger viewers, evening bulletins on BBC and ITV remain an easy way to reach millions of older viewers. Meanwhile live interviews provide raw material for viral clips – which brings its own problems for political campaigners.
Television journalists are increasingly on the hunt for a “viral moment”. The audience for a short clip of a single embarrassing slip-up is likely to be substantially larger than the numbers tuning in to a TV interview.
Reflecting a widespread concern among political strategists, Robbie Gibb, Theresa May’s former director of communications, this week suggested reporters were now driven to seek “car crash” interviews, as they are judged by whether their interviews go viral.
For instance, Jo Swinson’s inability to justify the Liberal Democrats’ infamously misleading election graphs on Sky News was seen by millions of people online after it was redistributed on Twitter and Facebook, many more than would have seen the original interview when it was broadcast on TV.
According to one Labour adviser, the easiest way to minimise potential damage is to minimise the number of lengthy interviews which could produce gaffes. A similar attitude is also being taken with the televised leaders debates – with both Labour and the Conservatives keen to ensure Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn only appear in head-to-head contests, to the exclusion of smaller parties.
While Westminster obsessives follow minute-by-minute coverage on the intricacies of parliamentary procedure, both Labour and the Conservatives have made clear they are less concerned about the Radio 4’s Today programme and more interested in reaching wider audiences, such as brief news updates on music radio stations such as Radio 2, Heart or Classic FM.
This format requires news stories to be summed up in two- or three-sentence snippets for people who may not be consuming much other news – removing nuance and rewarding parties with clear, sharp messages.
Radio and television stations are subject to strict broadcasting impartiality rules during the election, which Labour believe helped them enormously during the last general election by restricting the ability of the Conservatives to set the agenda. The BBC is already steeled for complaints and to be used as a punch bag during this campaign, with the head of news, Fran Unsworth, pre-emptively urging the public to understand that giving a platform to a politician is not the same as endorsing them.
Print newspaper sales have halved in the UK since 2010 – when the Conservatives came to power with the full-bloodied backing of the nation’s right-wing press. But campaigners from both major parties believe the front pages still matter. This is often because of the influence that newspapers with relatively small print circulations have on the BBC, with the national broadcaster’s coverage often following talking points set by the front pages.
At the same time British online news consumption has realigned itself around a small handful of well visited news websites and apps. Far out in front is BBC News Online, which reaches around half the population every week while striving for an impartial format that often repeats claims in “quote format”. Second place goes to MailOnline, a key target for politicians trying to reach general audiences and one that has increasingly run anti-Labour headlines. The Guardian is in third place, according to surveys by the Reuters Institute.
Many other news sites are left scrabbling for readers, making them easier for campaigns to ignore. Political articles at the online version of established newspapers can attract only a few thousand readers – unless they have a sufficiently inflammatory headline that makes them go viral or are picked up by aggregator sites.
The challenge for politicians is that much online news consumption is passive – driven by an activist sharing an article on Twitter, a celebrity uploading something to Instagram, or a story being posted in a neighbourhood Facebook group. Recent research carried out for Ofcom found the public increasingly consume their news by scanning dozens of headlines on smartphones through social media feeds, rarely clicking on links, and only occasionally reading and watching articles or videos to the end.
This passive way of obtaining information means the instant emotional impact of an amusing meme or a shocking headline is likely to spread far wider and faster than any policy-heavy political speech – which helps explains the potency of an image of Jacob Rees-Mogg reclining on a bench in the House of Commons.
This is harder for centralised political media units to control, forcing a change in how they operate. One serving Labour political adviser pointed out that just as the editorial whims of the Sun could dictate the political policy of Tony Blair’s New Labour, so the whims of the Facebook’s newsfeed algorithm inevitably shapes some of the policies chosen by Corbyn’s Labour.
Since the last UK election there has been a massive uptick in the use of WhatsApp groups as a news source. This form of communication is hard for political parties to influence directly, while also allowing disinformation to flourish.
The online playing field has also been levelled since 2017. During that snap election a raft of pro-Corbyn websites such as the Canary and Another Angry Voice dominated online debate but they have seen their audiences reduced by changes to Facebook’s algorithm. In the same period many pro-Brexit campaign groups have built up substantial audiences on Facebook. The site is increasingly seen by campaign groups as a way of reaching older, less-engaged voters, with younger voters more likely to use Instagram.
At the same time the new Johnson-led government has hired a series of 20-something advisers with intimate knowledge of right-wing blogs and experience of making messages go viral in a world where the battle is to grab attention at all costs. The Times claimed that Downing Street had polled views on issues such as transgender rights “to see whether they can be weaponised against Labour in northern working-class constituencies”.
The other, completely distinct, strand of online campaigning is the promotion of paid-for political ads – largely the preserve of Facebook and Instagram’s combined advertising platform, which attracted £3m of spending in the last election.
Tory HQ election planning has been left to Isaac Levido, a protege of long-term Tory adviser Sir Lynton Crosby, who insiders say has inherited a rusty campaign operation from the May era. Levido recently helped to run the successful election campaign for the right-wing coalition in Australia, aided by a relentless focus on message discipline and fake claims about tax rises spread widely on Facebook. He is joined by Sean Topham and Ben Guerin, who the Guardian exposed for running online disinformation campaigns on behalf of political clients.
Sam Jeffers of transparency group WhoTargetsMe, who is encouraging people to sign up to his service and help his outfit track political Facebook adverts, said the best approach for political parties “is not micro-targeting – it’s effective messaging, well optimised and repeated ad infinitum”.
When Facebook finally released data on Vote Leave’s controversial 2016 campaign it showed that rather than running tens of thousands of micro-targeted adverts as speculated, the successful pro-Brexit campaign spent millions of pounds to promote a relatively small number of core messages on immigration and NHS funding.
Craig Elder, who helped pioneer Facebook ad campaigns for the Conservatives in the 2015 general election, said: “It’s never quite as sophisticated as people think it is. It comes down to the principles of good old-fashioned advertising. When we start to get into the idea of ‘shadowy mind control with a million data points’ we’re either talking an aspiration or unbelievable bollocks.”
He said that Facebook had cracked down on parties using external data sources since the 2017 general election. Instead, the real question was how much parties were willing to commit to online advertising, with hard cash often being the main difference in terms of audience reach.
“It’s more sexy to write about astrophysics and micro-targeting,” he said. “In reality it’s not much more sophisticated than a Colgate ad – you need a really great message that connects with people and you need to pay to get it in front of as many people as you can.”
However, he insisted no advertising can counteract widespread negative coverage: “If a major figure from outside politics – a Stormzy, for example – is using their huge online reach to speak with an authentic voice and mobilise their followers against you, then that can be worth as much or more than great ads, good targeting and a really big budget. Parties also have to accept that almost all of that will be happening completely outside their control, and it adds a huge degree of unpredictability to the online battle.”
