
# The 2020 Porsche 911 Will Get A Manual Transmission Option

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Kyle Edward**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kyleedward/2019/11/03/enthusiasts-rejoice-2020-porsche-911-will-get-manual-transmission-option/)

Over the years, manual transmissions have mostly disappeared from our everyday lives. Being replaced in most cases with excellent automatic transmissions, which shift quicker, smoother and more efficiently than old-school manuals. Even some driving enthusiasts prefer high-tech dual-clutch automatic transmissions we see in high-end sports cars like the Porsche 911, BMW M3 and Mercedes-Benz GT. 
However, there's no denying a manual transmission is more fun to drive, more engaging and gives you ultimate control over the vehicle which is something that is lost with an automatic. Ultimate driving enthusiasts know this, which is why they still love a manual gearbox. 
Porsche being an enthusiast-focused brand, decided to introduce a seven-speed manual transmission for the 2020 911 Carrera S and 4S Coupe and Cabriolet models. There will be no additional charge for this option and of course the 8-speed automatic (PDK) is still the standard transmission. 
To sweeten the deal, Porsche is even giving seven-speed manual buyers the standard Sport Chrono Package at no additional charge which is generally a $2,720 option. This package includes dynamic drivetrain mounts, PSM Sport Mode, a rev-matching function and the mode switch on the steering wheel, which allows the driver to select between Normal, Sport, Sport Plus and the customizable Individual mode. 
Porsche says the 911 Carrera S equipped with the manual transmission can get from 0 to 60 mph in around 4 seconds and reach a top track speed of over 190 mph. Curb weight for the new 911 Carrera S Coupe with a manual transmission comes in at 3,298 lb.
Final Thoughts:
It's exciting to have the 7-speed manual as an option for 2020 as Porsche was born a racing brand and should offer a manual on their production halo car. While it won't be as quick as the PDK automatic it will ensure a perfect union of man and machine. 
