
# Broom pierced backside of East Kilbride soft play worker in horror 'prank' court hears

Published at: **2019-11-05T15:58:32+00:00**

Author: **East Kilbride News, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/east-kilbride-news/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/broom-pierced-backside-east-kilbride-20817398)

A chef has avoided prison after a kitchen prank led to a young colleague suffering horrific internal injuries.
Gary Trice tricked Lewis Mitchell into climbing on to a fridge and placed a broom handle underneath him.
The unwitting 21-year-old lost his grip and fell on to the handle which pierced his anus, leaving him in excruciating pain.
The incident happened at Rainforest Adventure soft play facility in Glenburn Road, East Kilbride, in February 2016.
Trice, 29, of John Neilson Avenue, Paisley, was ordered to do 220 hours of unpaid community work when he appeared at Hamilton Sheriff Court this week.
 
He admitted culpable and reckless conduct which caused Mr Mitchell severe injury.
The court heard that the victim has since received more than £250,000 in compensation from the company which runs the soft play centre.
Vish Kathuria, prosecuting, said Trice was in charge of the centre’s kitchen in the absence of the head chef while Mr Mitchell, a university student, was working as a porter.
A Facebook video had been circulating which showed a workplace prank where an employee dangled from a peg in a wall, unable to lower himself because a broom handle had been placed directly under him.
Looking to play a similar practical joke, Trice asked Mr Mitchell to pull himself up to the top of a fridge to fetch some cupcake holders.
As the porter did this, Trice placed a broom handle directly under his bottom.
Mr Kathuria told the court: “Mr Mitchell lost his grip and as he fell the broom handle tore through his trousers and underwear, penetrating his anus.
“It perforated his intestine and stopped just short of his stomach.
“He felt excrutiating pain travelling through him and screamed out as he fell into the arms of the accused.”
Blood was gushing from his anus and he was rushed to hospital for immediate surgery.
Mr Mitchell was in hospital for ten days and had another operation in October that year.
Mr Kathuria added: “He was in constant pain to the extent that he had to defer his second year at university.”
Defence agent Neal McShane said Trice, a first offender, wished to apologise publicly for the “reckless act”.
He added: “My client has not been in trouble since this highly unfortunate matter.
“I’m aware the complainer in this case took out a civil action against the company in the Court of Session.
“I’ve had confirmation from company representatives that there has been a settlement figure in excess of £250,000.”
Passing sentence, Sheriff David Bicket told Trice: “I appreciate this was not malicious, but it was extremely reckless and had tragic consequences for the person concerned.
“You have no analogous record and because of that and the terms of the background report I can deal with this other than by imposing custody.
“Having said that, it would merit custody in other circumstances.”
The sheriff told Trice unpaid work was a direct alternative and if he fails to do it a prison sentence will be “uppermost“ in the court’s mind.
