
# Co Down man faces extradition from Republic over Essex lorry deaths

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:40:00+00:00**

Author: **Henry Vaughan, David Young and Aoife Moore, Press Association**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/01/news/co-down-man-faces-extradition-from-republic-over-essex-lorry-deaths-1754323/)

A Co Down man is facing extradition from the Republic of Ireland over the deaths of 39 migrants found in the back of a lorry in Essex.
Eamonn Harrison (22) appeared in Dublin High Court today after he was arrested on a European Arrest Warrant.
He is charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, along with human trafficking and immigration offences, Essex Police said.
The force said extradition proceedings have been started to bring Harrison, of Newry in Co Down, Northern Ireland, to the UK.
He was remanded in custody in Cloverhill Prison, Dublin, until November 11, a court spokesman said.
Harrison, from Newry, has been remanded in custody in Cloverhill Prison, Dublin, until November 11.
It comes as local media reported police in Vietnam's Ha Tinh province arrested two people in connection with the deaths after launching an investigation into suspected human trafficking.
Meanwhile, it is understood wanted suspect Ronan Hughes (40) has twice spoken to police by telephone.
Detectives have urged him and his brother Christopher (34) who are both from Co Armagh, to hand themselves in.
The pair are wanted on suspicion of manslaughter and human trafficking after the bodies of eight women and 31 men were found in a refrigerated trailer attached to a lorry in an industrial park in Grays in the early hours of Wednesday October 23.
Ronan Hughes is understood to have identified himself to a custody officer after calling Essex Police shortly after lorry driver Mo Robinson (25) was arrested following the discovery.
A PSNI detective later called Hughes and had a conversation with him, it is understood.
Essex Police Detective Chief Inspector Daniel Stoten told reporters at a press conference in Belfast: "Today I want to make a direct appeal - Ronan and Christopher, hand yourselves in to the PSNI.
"We need you both to come forward and assist this investigation.
"Although we have already spoken to Ronan Hughes recently by telephone, we need to have a conversation with him and his brother in person.
"Talking to Ronan and Christopher is crucial to our investigation and the sooner we can make this happen the sooner we can progress and continue with our investigation."
The detective said a lorry believed to be connected to the brothers was stopped and seized by the PSNI on Thursday but no further arrests were made.
They are said to have links to the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, as well as with the road haulage and shipping industries.
Robinson, from Craigavon, appeared at Chelmsford Magistrates' Court on Monday charged with 39 counts of manslaughter, conspiracy to traffic people, conspiracy to assist unlawful immigration and money laundering.
Three other people arrested in connection with the incident - two men aged 38 and 46 and a 38-year-old woman - have been released on bail.
The discovery has sparked a huge international investigation to try to identify the victims.
Essex Police initially believed the 39 were all Chinese nationals but it is now thought Vietnamese men and women are among the dead.
It is not yet known when the victims entered the trailer, where temperatures can be as low as -25C if the fridge is activated, or the exact route it travelled before crossing from Zeebrugge in Belgium to Purfleet.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
