
# WhatsApp Is Letting You Decide If You Want To Be Added Into That Group Chat

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Thanussha Priyah**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407242/WhatsApp-Is-Letting-You-Decide-If-You-Want-To-Be-Added-Into-That-Group-Chat/)

Messenger app WhatsApp is rolling out a new feature that gives users control over which groups to belong in, letting them avoid getting dragged into mass conversations they do not intend to join. The group chat feature was created to help users get together and hold important conversations with several users as once. However, it has translated into something more bothersome with false information, spam, and even illegal transactions abound. With the new option, users can grant or deny permissions to being added to particular groups. The feature will not be enabled by default, so smartphone owners will have to head over to the Settings section in their app to utilize it. Under settings, users simply have to tap on Account, select Privacy, then pick Groups. They can also choose one of three options: “Everyone,” “My Contacts,” or “My Contacts except.” Advertisement Advertisement When an admin can’t add you into a group, they will be prompted to send a private message to you, asking if you would like to be part of the group, but you will have to accept the invitation before it expires within three days. Users are not able to block groups as a whole; they can only prevent group admins from adding them into the groups. The option is rolling out worldwide in the coming days. More information can be found via WhatsApp’s blog post here.
[via TechCrunch, images via Pe3k / Shutterstock.com / WhatsApp Blog]
