
# 2019 Breeders’ Cup Classic: Vino Rosso Wins In The Stretch, McKinzie Places, Higher Power Shows

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Guy Martin**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/guymartin/2019/11/03/2019-breeders-cup-classic-vino-rosso-wins-in-the-stretch-mckinzie-places-higher-power-shows/)

Vino Rosso's long residency at Santa Anita and his perfect placement in the field at the top of the stretch by jockey Irad Ortiz paid off well this afternoon at Santa Anita as he brought home the $3.3-million winner's cut of the Classic's 6-million purse with a time of 2:02.80. Joel Rosario, in the irons aboard McKinzie, was also well placed but Vino Rosso had more gas left and powered by the favorite to beat him by four-and-a-half lengths. It was a form of redemption for Vino Rosso, who had shown poorly in last year's Classic, running 12th, and for his trainer Todd Pletcher. "Justice is served," said Vino Rosso's co-owner Mike Repole. With the victory and its $3.3 million winner's cut, Vino Rosso more than doubled his previous lifetime earnings of slightly more than $1.5 million.
Pletcher, who has never won a Classic, said, "It's one thing I was missing that I was wanting. It feels great."
Higher Power and the mare Elate did their best to live up to their odds just behind the favorites by taking third and fourth, respectively. But it was Vino Rosso's power move in the stretch that had all in agreement, including McKinzie's trainer Bob Baffert, who assessed McKinzie's race with his trademark Arizona-rancher's straight talk.
"He ran his race. Joel (Rosario) rode him well," said Baffert. "I told him to make sure he’s in front turning for home, that’s the way he likes it. But, Vino Rosso, after watching his last race I knew he’s been getting better and better and he won here going a mile-and-a-quarter. He was sitting there just perfect, and I knew he was going to have a lot of horse left."
