
# Jurgen Klopp makes Liverpool Carabao Cup quarter-final team selection vow

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:25:27+00:00**

Author: **Mark Jones, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/mark-jones/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/jurgen-klopp-makes-liverpool-carabao-20833012)

Jurgen Klopp has suggested that Liverpool's line-up for their Carabao Cup quarter-final tie at Aston Villa will closely resemble the side that beat Arsenal in the last round.
The Reds beat the Gunners on penalties after a remarkable 5-5 draw at Anfield last week, setting up their last eight clash at Villa Park.
But from the moment that victory was secured via a Curtis Jones penalty in front of the Kop, debate raged over just when the game with Dean Smith's side would be played.
As European champions, Liverpool are in Qatar for the FIFA Club World Cup on December 18, and after much discussion with the EFL have decided to fit in the Villa tie the day before.
The Reds are likely to field a team of younger player for the Villa game, and Klopp says they deserve the opportunity to play again.
"I am not sure if we prioritise it (the Club World Cup)," he said when questioned by Sky Sports .
"We had talks over the Club World Cup much longer. We had to make a decision over it and the boys wanted to play in it.
"Hopefully it's not a once-in-a-lifetime chance but it doesn't happen too often. We decided to do that and after that we played in the Carabao Cup.
"We have two games. In England, it's not that important. For the rest of the world, they look at that.
"The Carabao Cup, we didn't know if we would go through. We played Arsenal , a tough draw, with a much-changed team and I see it as an opportunity for them to play in the next round."
Reports suggest the Liverpool under-23s boss Neil Critchley could take charge of the Villa game, with Klopp and most of his first-team already in Qatar.
The German, though, says no decision has been taken on that matter yet.
"I don't have to think about it yet," he said.
"We have until the middle of December. We will find a proper solution for everybody.
"I won't play! It won't make a difference to fans watching."
