
# Regina mayor and council drafting motion to fast track lead service connection replacement program

Published at: **2019-11-06T23:06:23+00:00**

Author: **Jennifer Ackerman**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/local-news/regina-mayor-and-council-drafting-motion-to-fast-track-lead-service-connection-replacement-program)

Regina’s mayor says there’s no question that the city’s Lead Service Connection Replacement Program needs to be fast tracked in light of a recent investigative news report that revealed high levels of lead-tainted water in some Regina homes.
“We see the urgency and we’ll be acting as soon as we can,” Mayor Michael Fougere said in an interview Wednesday. “I’ve talked to members of council and my administration and we’ll be bringing forward some proposals to accelerate the conversion of the public infrastructure.”
The proposals will likely include an accelerated timeline for replacement of the publicly-owned lead service lines, an expansion of the city’s free lead water filter program and possibly a cost-sharing program to help homeowners replace lead service lines on the private side of their property, he said.
The national investigation, which included the Leader-Post, Global News, and the University of Regina School of Journalism, found tap water samples from some Regina, Saskatoon, and Moose Jaw homes were among the highest measured levels of lead-tainted water in Canada.
Regina’s water, which is sourced from the Buffalo Pound Water Treatment Plant, is safe and 95 per cent of the city’s water service connections are lead free, but the remaining five per cent are made of lead and at the current pace of replacement will take more than 20 years to complete.
Regina originally had approximately 7,000 lead service lines on the public side of residential property lines, but has reduced that number to 3,600 over the years through replacements.
In 2017, the City of Regina replaced 109 city-owned lead service lines; in 2018 it replaced 144. The city says they are on track to increase the replacement rate by 10 per cent by the end of 2019 for a total of 160 replacements this year.
Currently, if home owners have lead service lines on the private side of their property and want those replaced, it’s their responsibility and at their cost. Residents who have lead lines on the private side or their property or on the city side, can access free lead water filters for up to one year courtesy of the city.
In contrast, Saskatoon replaces between 300 and 400 lead services lines every year and mandate home owners replace the private side at the same time, but with financial aid from the city. It has just over 2,800 public lead service lines left to replace and is poised to do so by 2026, but does not offer a free filter program.
“I’ve actually been quite full of regret,” said Ward 3 Coun. Andrew Stevens. “I think it’s pretty clear to council as well as the general public that the timeline that we were originally working on is not acceptable.”
When the replacement program was first approved by council, he said the plan was to roll it out and gauge the uptake and response.
“I should have went with my gut instinct which is no, we should probably set far more ambitious timelines,” said Stevens.
He said he plans to support Fougere’s motion, and is even open to co-sponsoring it, as long as he agrees with the terms set out. He said there needs to be more money on the table for filters and other home infrastructure support. He said a timeline of no more than 10 years, but ideally closer to five should be the new target.
When asked if the city’s approach to informing residents through letters and making testing and filters optional/voluntary was good enough, Fougere said “clearly not when you have 30 per cent responding.”
“We need to be more rigorous on that one and more disciplined and I think we are going to that,” he said.
Fougere also plans to meet with Saskatchewan Minister of Highways and Infrastructure Greg Ottenbreit to discuss the issue further.
On Monday, Ottenbreit said aside from the province’s “record” municipal revenue sharing, it would not be providing any more support for Saskatchewan cities to tackle the lead infrastructure program at this time.

        jackerman@postmedia.com
      
