
# Piers Morgan upsets Ruby Turner by calling her wrong name with rude hidden meaning

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:14:59+00:00**

Author: **Kyle O&#39;Sullivan, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/kyle-osullivan/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/piers-morgan-upsets-ruby-turner-20806848)

Piers Morgan made a massive blunder on today's Good Morning Britain by calling Ruby Turner the wrong name.
The soul singer, songwriter and actress was in the studio for a debate on John Legend scripting new modern lyrics for 'Baby, It's Cold Outside' in wake of the #MeToo movement.
When introducing the guests, Piers said: "We've got in the studio a veritable fest of superstars. Ruby Murray..."
The mortified singer was left open-mouthed, while Piers realised his mistake and emphatically apologised.
Susanna Reid was shaking her head in shock as Ruby cried: "Oh Piers, you're at it."
Piers confessed: "Sorry I've just identified you the wrong way, ironically."
The GMB host then turned to another guest, American singer-songwriter Shelia Ferguson.
While Susanna had her head in her hands, her co-host joked: "And Sheila...I think you're still Ferguson."
Good Morning Britain viewers took to Twitter after watching the awkward moment.
One viewer said: "I cannot believe I have just witnessed Piers Morgan, mistakingly calling the great Ruby Turner, Ruby Murry, Cockney rhyming slang for curry, how embarrassing....what a guy??"
"Did @piersmorgan just call Ruby Turner a curry? Wow. #woke," added another.
A third said: "@piersmorgan  calling Ruby Turner Ruby Murray has made my Monday"
Piers and Ruby clashed during the debate, with Ruby backing the decision to change the Christmas song's lyrics.
Ruby said: "Here's the thing. They haven’t rewritten a whole song. Tweaking one or two lines isn’t taking away from the song. They've taken on a very popular Christmas song and tweaked a few lines.
"To be honest with you that song is written in 1944 back then it was OK to sing stuff like that. Things have changed. People have moved on. The #MeToo situation.
"If you put the lyrics under a microscope you might understand."
Piers argued that it was just "flirting" and that the woman in the song was "not being attacked".
Deana Martin, the daughter of singer Dean Martin, said the original version was "flirty fun" and changing the words was "absurd".
On her dad's opinion, she said: "He would have laughed. He wouldn't care about something like this. It's too absurd for him. It's a fabulous song and been recorded by so many people.
"My dad didn't care about things like that. He was a such a great guy and it's a fabulous song. I think John should have just left it alone."
Most GMB viewers were opposed to changing the lyrics of the Christmas song.
Taking to Twitter, one viewer asked: "People have nothing better to do than whine about the lyrics of a Xmas song?"
"What a load of nonsense sone of these do gooders need to read most rap/grime lyrics. Toe curling," added another.
A third agreed: "Why are people so offended by a Christmas Song??? There is nothing wrong with it. It’s just a Christmas song"

        *Good Morning Britain airs weekdays on ITV at 6am
      
