
# Radical Women: Jessica Dismorr and Her Contemporaries review – the artists who refused to obey

Published at: **2019-11-05T11:01:07+00:00**

Author: **Chloë Ashby**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2019/nov/05/radical-women-jessica-dismorr-and-her-contemporaries-review-pallant-house-gallery-chichester)

4 / 5 stars 4 out of 5 stars. Pallant House Gallery, ChichesterThis powerful exhibition celebrates a defiant group who, as the suffragette movement began to grow, claimed a new place for women in art and politics
The suffragette Una Dugdale Duval raised eyebrows in 1912 when she refused to use the word “obey” in her wedding vows. Later that year she published a pamphlet, Love and Honour But Not Obey, and fellow campaigner Ethel Wright painted her portrait. Posed in front of her piano, the picture of elegance in an emerald-green silk dress, Dugdale Duval looks nothing like the shabby suffragettes demonised by the Daily Mail. The cockfight kicking off on the gold screen behind her is a satiric allusion to the manners of male MPs.
Images of modern femininity feature prominently in this exhibition at Pallant House Gallery. Radical Women: Jessica Dismorr and Her Contemporaries tells the story of a group of early-20th-century female artists in Britain who engaged in progressive art, literature and politics. As the title implies, the star of the show is Dismorr, who despite suffering from mental illness was a pioneer in four modernist movements: rhythm, vorticism, postwar modernist figuration and abstraction. The small but self-assured exhibition traces her and her allies’ lives through paintings, sculptures, graphic art and more.
Within a decade of graduating from the Slade School of Fine Art in 1906, Dismorr had joined two groups aligned with the fight for suffrage. Rhythm was characterised by rural scenes rendered with intense and often clashing colours, while vorticism combined a more subdued palette with the fragmentation of cubism and angular imagery lifted from the urban environment. The city may have been a masculine space, but in their art women were free to navigate it as they wished. In Abstract Composition, painted around 1915, Dismorr takes a handful of architectural fragments and rejigs them to create the illusion of depth. Her work was shown alongside that of her good friend Helen Saunders, whose Untitled Drawing – a crush of encased figures – alludes to the imprisonment of pro-suffrage activists.
The war sparked a “call to order” that saw artists return to figurative art, a shift that’s evident in the portraits by Dismorr and the other women she exhibited with in the 1920s. But look closer. Dismorr’s Interior (1930) depicts the Frankfort family at their home in Hampstead. Yettie slumps on the edge of a chair with her chin in her hand, a nervous look in her eye. In the foreground is the austere profile of her husband, Henri, whose head is twice the size of Yettie’s and positively dwarfs their doll-like son. When Yettie inquired about the distorted scale, Dismorr said it was a formal decision. Yettie remembered replying: “Formal be damned, this is a symbolical representation of a psychological insight.” The artist apparently grinned and said: “You are right.”
Grappling with their position in society, these female artists sought to foster a new a way of life. Winifred Nicholson’s Father and Son is an intimate portrait of her husband, Ben, with their infant son at the kitchen table. In a rare reversal of gender roles, it captures a tender moment as Ben holds his baby close, pressing his lips to his ear. Across the room is Self Portrait by Paule Vézelay, whose arms are raised defiantly above her tilted head. Born Marjorie Watson-Williams, she changed her name when she moved to France in 1926. Though clearly feminine on the page, “Paule” spoken sounds masculine.
The third and final room of the exhibition sees Dismorr return to abstraction, which in the 1930s was regarded as international – and, as such, an implicit protest against nationalist sentiment. Here we have a smooth wooden sculpture from Barbara Hepworth, with whom Dismorr exhibited in 1937, and a stone mother and child by Betty Rea. In Dismorr’s library was a copy of 5 on Revolutionary Art, a collection of essays with a foreword by Rea, who proclaimed: “The artist as an individual is a responsible part of the society in which he lives and as such cannot escape the issues of his time. The future of art hangs on the future of civilisation.”
A shame about the masculine pronouns – and yet the sentiment surely captures the spirit of these radical women.
• Radical Women: Jessica Dismorr and Her Contemporaries is at Pallant House Gallery, Chichester, until 23 February.
