
# Gemma Collins and James 'Arg' Argent 'get back together again' as saga continues

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:50:33+00:00**

Author: **Vicki Newman, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/vicki-newman/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/gemma-collins-james-arg-argent-20824282)

Gemma Collins and James 'Arg' Argent are reportedly back on yet again.
The TOWIE stars have been on and off more than a light switch.
And now it's said they're giving their romance another go after jetting off to Dubai together to sort out their differences.
Just last month, Gemma, 38, was said to have dumped 31-year-old Arg when he refused to go to rehab.
But less than three weeks later, it's reported they've been spotted kissing and holding hands during a romantic trip to Dubai.
MailOnline reports they were seen looking romantic at the £250-a-night Palazzo Versace Hotel.
A source told them: "Gemma and Arg looked more loved up than ever in Dubai. They've been staying at the Versace hotel and have been working hard to talk through their problems.
"At dinner they were holding hands and instead of arguing, they seemed relaxed and content in each other's company.
"Everyone's hoping their time away together will do them the world of good and they can return a happy couple."
They've split and got back together numerous times in the past.
And the source says Gemma has got back with Arg "sooner than expected" this time, but that she loves and cares for him and can't ignore her feelings.
Their most recent split came after Gemma called 999 over fears that James had overdosed.
Speaking out about the incident recently, Arg told OK! magazine : "Gemma loves me to death. She was seriously concerned because she couldn’t get hold of me, which I understand.
"I didn’t have my phone on me because it was charging downstairs. I have put her through a lot so I completely understand her worry. She remembers what she’s been through in the past with me so she thought the worst."
The couple once split because Gemma was left mortified by Arg sharing a video of her snoring on Instagram .
They also had a huge argument where he took aim at her over her size.
She was seen on her ITVBe show Diva Forever crying her eyes out as she turned to friends and family for support.
Some told her she was better off without Arg.
On the most recent episode of TOWIE, the GC was seen telling pals Bobby Norris and Chloe Sims that she's single.
She said: "I held on for two years and stood by someone and unfortunately it has not worked out and it is very sad.
"I haven’t stopped eating with the stress and upset of everything. What can you do?"
Mirror Online has contacted Gemma and Arg's representatives for comment.

        Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@trinitymirror.com or call us direct 0207 29 33033
      
