
# Hampshire signs Nathan Lyon for red-ball contract

Published at: **2019-11-06T08:12:48+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/cricket/2019/nov/06/hampshire-signs-nathan-lyon-for-red-ball-contract?utm_medium=rss)


        English county club Hampshire, on Wednesday, signed Australia off-spinner Nathan Lyon for a red-ball contract for the upcoming domestic season. Lyon, with an experience of 91 Test matches with Australia, is looking forward to his new stint which will commence during the County Championship.
      
Regarded as the best off-spinner to ever represent Australia in Tests, Lyon has been roped in by Hampshire for the County Championship season of 2020. With 363 wickets in 91 Tests, Lyon is considered as ‘Goat’ in Aussie cricket. Lyon is excited to join his new role since Hampshire has had a good relationship with Australian cricketers. 
“I very much look forward to playing with Hampshire in next year’s county championship. It is a fabulous opportunity to be involved with a leading county who have had a long and successful relationship with Australian cricketers,” Lyon said in an official statement, as quoted by the Sportstar.
“I love playing cricket in England and no doubt will enjoy the 2020 summer with the Hampshire players, coaches, members and supporters,” he added.
Meanwhile, the  Director of Hampshire Cricket, Giles White has spoken highly of the Aussie spinner. “Nathan is a really high-class spinner and we identified him in the summer as someone who would be a great addition to our Championship side.”
“He has a real appetite for county cricket and is keen to be a part of what we’re trying to do here, so we’re delighted to secure his signature and we can’t wait to have him on board next summer,” added White.
