
# Blockchain-Based Identification System For Cities Is Launched in China

Published at: **2019-11-04T09:28:38+00:00**

Author: **Daria Rud**

Original: [Coinspeaker](https://www.coinspeaker.com/blockchain-identification-china/)

China, that surprises the world non-stop, has come up with a new development: three institutes in Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province in North China, have finished working on blockchain-based identification system for cities. This initiative is a significant part of the smart city infrastructure.
As Global Times has reported, the new system suggests assigning a specific identification code to cities all over China and strives to achieve better connection and data sharing between different parts of the country.
Zhang Chao, director of the Zhongguancun Industry & Information Research Institute of Two-dimensional Code Technology who took part in the development, commented:
He Kejia, Vice President of the China Research Society of Urban Development, also explained the peculiarities of the new development, saying:
Now, each city can apply for a unique identification code.
China first started paying heed to smart cities long ago, in 2012. Then, the piloting of smart cities began. In 2016, China started building smart cities targeting to construct at least 100 of them by 2020. In general, there are about 500 potential smart city pilot projects considered in China.
Chinese example shows that smart cities are not just a dream. As we are observing ever-increasing urbanization, environmental, social and economic sustainability is a must to keep pace with this rapid expansion that is taxing cities’ resources. The solution is smart cities that utilize IoT sensors, actuators, and technology to connect components across the city. Smart city technologies have already been implemented in Singapore, Dubai, Amsterdam, Barcelona, Madrid, Stockholm, Copenhagen, and this list is going to increase with the Chinese developments.
Besides, China is actively embracing blockchain. Recently, Chinese authorities banned any form of communications that may tend to criticize, oppose or cast aspersions on Bitcoin and blockchain technology. What is more, it has been revealed that the Chinese have been quietly working on over 500 blockchain projects in so many different fields with as many use-case scenarios that can be deployed practically in every sense. The country seems to be ahead of everyone else in blockchain implementation and intends to have the technology integrated into every sphere and facet of life.
It is also known that the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) is actively working on launching the central bank digital currency (CBDC) or the digital renminbi, and it seems the country is almost ready for presenting it to the world. When rolled out, it may make a strong competition to Facebook‘s Libra and win in its race.
China’s tech initiatives are not limited to the blockchain technology only. Last week, China joined the list of countries that have fully launched 5G services. On November 1, Chinese mobile operators made 5G available in many parts of the country. China Mobile, China Unicom, and China Telecom now offer several 5G options for all of their individual customers.
