
# Eat, Sip, Save 2019: five brunches to check out this weekend

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:21:00+00:00**

Author: **Amy Mathieson**

Original: [Time Out Dubai](https://www.timeoutdubai.com/brunch/422317-eat-sip-save-2019-five-brunches-to-check-out-this-weekend)

Brunch is big news here in Dubai, and everyone loves a bargain. This November we’ve teamed up with restaurants across the city to bring you top value meals – including brunch.Eat, Sip, Save is taking place across Dubai restaurants for 30 whole days throughout November and there are loads of great value dining deals to take advantage of.And if you’re looking for a brunch, you’re in luck. We bring you five brunches to try for less this month – from French feasts to Italian lunches and party brunches Enjoy.For a full list of Eat, Sip, Save deals, click here.Armani/DeliFor an authentic Italian brunch, at a discount, this one, in Burj Khalifa, is for you. Armani/Deli in Downtown Dubai has a vast range of antipasti, fresh seafood, handmade pasta, risottos, cheese and charcuterie platters, extravagant desserts and more is sure to keep you happy. Plus this month, you’ll get 25 percent off the brunch, which starts at Dhs310 for the soft drinks package. Pass-a the pasta.Fri 12.30pm-5.30pm. Armani Hotel Dubai, Downtown Dubai (04 888 3666).BOCAThis cool Mediterranean restaurant in Dubai’s DIFC has a brunch package up for grabs, where you’ll save Dhs45 on whatever package you choose – meaning the soft package is Dhs200 (from Dhs245), vegan package is Dhs300 from Dhs345, house drinks Dhs350 from Dhs395 and bubbly Dhs450 from Dhs495.Open Thu-Tue noon-2am, Wed noon-3am. DIFC (04 323 1833).BQ French KitchenA seat at the En Blanc Brunch deal every weekend will set you back Dhs300 for the brunch-meets-white party (where guests are expected to don their finest white attire), which is usually Dhs350. You’ll get house drinks and mixed drinks, plus some cracking Mediterranean fare – we’re talking burrata, carpaccio, salmon, risotto and pain perdu for dessert. Alternatively, dish and drinks deals offer a truffle pizza and a glass of white grape for Dhs125, or a pain perdu dessert with a glass of red grape for Dhs95. Mais oui.Open daily 12.30pm-3.30pm, 6.30pm-midnight. Habtoor Palace Dubai, Al Habtoor City (04 435 5577).Dusty’sWhat’s better than a bubbly brunch? One at half the price, of course. Get down to DIFC with your best mate and enjoy a buy-one-get-one free deal on the bubbly brunch package. The package usually comes in at Dhs499 meaning you can enjoy four-hours of free-flowing drinks and tasty bites for under Dhs250. This is a party brunch that focuses on good music, good vibes and great food.Open Sun-Wed 7.30am-midnight; Thu 7.30am-2am; Fri 1pm-2am. Al Fattan Currency House, DIFC (04 354 5435).The MarketOne of the best family brunches around, The Market’s Friday brunch at Hilton Dubai Al Habtoor City has got a terrific deal on throughout November. Book in for a Friday afternoon feast, and you’ll get an almost 50 percent discount on soft, house and kids’ packages. House drinks cost Dhs225 per person instead of Dhs425, soft drinks at Dhs150 instead of Dhs300, and Dhs100 for kids aged six to 12 – it’s free for kids aged five and under. Meanwhile, theme nights throughout the week (except the seafood night) will set you back just Dhs99.From Dhs150 (soft), Dhs225 (house), Dhs100 (kids aged six-12), free (kids five and under). Fri 1pm-4.30pm. Hilton Dubai Al Habtoor City, Sheikh Zayed Road (04 435 5577).
Be the first to get all the latest Dubai news, reviews and deals into your inbox by signing up to our free newsletter, click here to sign up.
