
# Celebrity X Factor fans joke stylists 'cut up carpet' for Nicole and Jenny's dresses

Published at: **2019-11-02T23:32:28+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Wallis**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/celebrity-x-factor-fans-joke-20799175)

Celebrity X Factor fans noticed a startling similarity Nicole Scherzinger and Jenny Ryan's dresses this evening.
The ITV show returned tonight for another live show full of soaring vocals, eye-wincing screeching and tear-jerker moments.
During the second live show, fans instantly flocked to Twitter to comment on the similarity between Celebrity X Factor judge Nicole Scherzinger's, 41, and contestant Jenny Ryan's, 37, outfit choices.
Viewers were sent into meltdown after both women stepped out onto The X Factor stage in fiery red dresses and hilariously accused X Factor stylists of purchasing material from a carpet shop to create the two outfits.
Pop sensation Nicole wowed in a flaming scarlet number which featured a one-shouldered design with a dramatic floaty sleeve and sequinned embellishments.
While The Chase star Jenny also turned heads in a flamboyant red dress with a long-draping train and sheer tie-up jacket detailing.
One eagle-eyed fan spotted the similarities between their outfits and took to Twitter with a comical explanation.
They wrote: "When the X Factor Celebrity budget is that low, you’ve gotta pop to Carpetright, buy a red carpet and make two dresses from it. RIP X Factor."
Both stars' outfits featured layers of red material and caused social media fans to mock the 'carpet' similarity.
Another user also noticed the curtain-inspired look. They wrote: "Why did they dress Jenny like a 80's curtain?"
Meanwhile, another X Factor Celebrity viewer screen-grabbed a hilarious shot of Nicole watching Jenny perform and posted the snap alongside a hilarious caption.
They posted: "Nicole looking at Jenny as if to say 'Didn't you get the memo babe I'm wearing Red tonight'?"
Other viewers were unimpressed with tonight's fashion choices.
One wrote: "Jenny's dressed like a mixture between them Dolls that go over loo roll and them mad Spanish flamenco dolls you bring back from your holiday...."
Another noticed the wardrobe malfunction between the two stars. They tweeted: "How embarrassing. It seems Jenny and Nicole have worn the same dress tonight."
While another appeared to blame X Factor stylists. They commented: "Sorry but that dress is an abomination! Sack the wardrobe people forthwith."
The Chase star secured herself a safe chair through to this Saturday’s show following her powerful rendition of Conchita Wurst’s Eurovision winner Rise Like A Phoenix last week.
The 37-year-old recently opened up about her battle with depression and how singing helped her with her struggles.
The quiz-master said her mentor Nicole approached her backstage to discuss her experience.
She recently told New magazine: "After the show, she said music is her prescription for feeling better and that meant we immediately had a bond."

        *The X Factor: Celebrity airs tonight at 8.30pm on ITV
      
