
# UK weather forecast: Snow and two weeks of rain in one day as temperatures drop

Published at: **2019-11-04T05:23:46+00:00**

Author: **Matthew Dresch, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/matthew-dresch/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/uk-weather-forecast-snow-two-20806131)

Two weeks of rain is expected to fall in parts of the UK today, with snow on the horizon.
The Met Office has issued a weather warning for east Scotland, predicting up to 60mm of rainfall in places.
The alert started at midnight and will be in force until 11.59pm tonight, with forecasters raising the prospect of flooding.
Met Office meteorologist Marco Petagna said temperatures are set to drop this week, with snow possible in Scotland on Thursday.
He added: "There's a chance of snow on the mountains in Scotland on Thursday and possibly Friday.
 
"It will be close to freezing on the mountains. On Thursday, it will generally be between 7 and 10C (maximum).
"On Wednesday and Thursday night it will dip below freezing (in parts of the UK).
"Temperatures are falling this week. It's been fairly mild recently."
 
Mr Petagna said east Scotland will be battered by gale-force winds and heavy rain today, meaning some areas could see almost half the 121mm average monthly rainfall for November in the UK today.
Temperatures will peak at 13C, although the mercury will stay below 10C in the north of the country.
Fog could ruin bonfire night for some Brits, with widespread mist and fog expected tomorrow.
 
The Met Office weather warning for today states: "Rain will become prolonged and heavy at times during Sunday night and well into Monday across eastern Scotland, moving south into southeast Scotland during the day.
"15-25 mm of rain is expected widely, with the most exposed high ground seeing 40-60 mm.
"Strong east to northeasterly winds are also expected, particularly near coasts where gusts of 50 mph are likely during Monday afternoon."
Heavy rain and strong winds continuing across eastern Scotland, moving into northern England later. Once fog patches clear, many places seeing showers, locally heavy particularly in the southwest, with some bright spells. Windy for a time in the far southwest.
Rain persisting over eastern Scotland and northeast England with showers around coasts of Wales and southern England. Some low cloud and fog forming over the Midlands and East Anglia.
Cloudy and cold for the east with showers, particularly in the southeast. Drier in the west. Windy, particularly along the east coast of England but easing from the northwest later.
Cold, frosty and foggy in east at first, cloudy, windy and wet weather spreading from the west, then blustery showers. Sunshine and scattered showers, wintry in the north, on Friday.
