
# Book Review: ‘A Man And His Mountain’ By Edward Humes

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Marisa D&#39;Vari**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadvari/2019/11/05/book-review-a-man-and-his-mountain-by-edward-humes/)

Kendall-Jackson is one of the most successful Chardonnay brands in the United States. Many credit its founder, Jess Jackson, with creating and popularizing the rich, buttery, oaky style of Chardonnay so many consumers adore.
In the book A Man and His Mountain: The Everyman who Created Kendall Jackson and Became America’s Greatest Wine Entrepreneur, author Edward Humes tells the story of how Jess Jackson created the Kendall-Jackson brand and popularized its Chardonnay wine.  
But more than that, author Humes shows how the combination of imagination and fortitude, despite risks and downturns can result in success.
In the course of the book, people who are too young to remember the wine world of the sixties, seventies, and eighties will see how much wine styles and wine marketing have changed.

        Jess Jackson: In The Beginning
      
Looking back roughly a half-century, it might be natural to assume that founder Jess Jackson had an easy time of creating the Kendall-Jackson brand. After all, he was a lawyer by profession and knew how to write and read a contract. 
Jackson also had a vivid imagination an iron strong will. Despite this, executing his vision of KJ Chardonnay was a challenge.
From the very beginning, Jackson wanted to focus on creating a Chardonnay wine style that American consumers would embrace in large numbers.
He wanted “accessible” flavors with richness from malolactic fermentation (a winemaking technique that gives wines a softer, creamy aroma and texture). Knowing the delicious aromas and flavors of butter and toast aging in French oak barrique can give a wine, Jackson wanted his Chardonnay to be aged in French oak.
Finally, he wanted to make a wine from Chardonnay grapes grown in many diverse California regions. The reason was to give the finished wine a specific flavor profile that could be achieved year after year. This would give the wine complexity, as well as result in a consistent flavor bottle after bottle, vintage after vintage.

        Jess Jackson as Salesman
      
Beyond orchestrating the style of Kendall-Jackson Chardonnay, sourcing grapes from different regions, and overseeing the winemaking team, Jackson also had to sell the wine.
At the time, consumers had two basic choices when it came to buying wine. Serious, mostly wealthy wine lovers gravitated towards French Chardonnay, mostly sold in fine wine stores. Mass market consumers could choose lower-priced wine on the shelves of supermarkets.
Popular wine labels at the time included names like Gallo Hearty Burgundy (even though it consisted of grapes from California), and Italian Swiss Colony. 
In the book, author Humes details the struggles Jackson had in selling the wine. His big break came at New York’s famed Oyster Bar restaurant. With luck and his natural charm, Jackson was able to convince the owner to buy a case of KJ Chardonnay.
Another lucky break came when KJ’s tasting room assistant submitted the KJ Chardonnay to wine competitions. KJ won the first platinum award for American Chardonnay at the American Wine Competition.
Yet perhaps the luckiest break was when KJ Vintner’s Reserve Chardonnay was served at a 1982 White House Dinner. Nancy Reagan loved it, leading to a flood of publicity. Herb Caen, columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle, dubbed it “Nancy’s Wine.”
The 1982 vintage sold out, and the KJ Chardonnay was soon on its way to becoming America’s leading Chardonnay.
Author Edward Humes is to be congratulated for the way he recreated an era, and a man, with such vivid attention to detail. As you read this book, you will feel that you are right there with Jess Jackson sharing his joys and struggles as he founds his empire.
