
# The Story Behind Every Song On Sudan Archives’ New Album Athena

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:20:39+00:00**

Author: **Margaret Farrell**

Original: [Stereogum](https://www.stereogum.com/2063350/sudan-archives-athena-interview/franchises/interview/)

Over the years, Brittney Parks has undergone her own personal apotheosis. It all started with the fiddle. She was mesmerized as a child after witnessing an Irish folk band performing in her hometown of Cincinnati. She begged her mom for a violin. Parks became mostly self-taught growing up, defining her style in church and warping the expectations of the assumed classical Western instrument.
When she was around 17, she took on the name Sudan — a fated choice, as she would discover her love for Sudanese fiddlers. She’s taken inspiration from a variety of African musicians, including Cameroonian electronic music pioneer Francis Bebey and Sudanese violinist Asim Gorashi. These trailblazers exposed the washed-over history of the stringed instrument, as well as its potential with new technologies and modern genres from G-Funk to ’90s R&B.
A family argument led to her moving to Los Angeles at 19, where she would become the unique and masterful musician that stands before us today. In LA, Sudan hustled. While working multiple jobs and making music on the side, she met Matthewdavid of Stones Throw. After being amazed by her work, Stones Throw signed her and put out her first two EPs. And today, the label has released her debut album.
Athena is Sudan’s autobiography, documenting her tribulations and her successes. It’s an epic poem of duality, named after the goddess of wisdom, war, and the arts (just to name a few). “Whenever I see pictures, I don’t see any black female goddesses,” she tells me over the phone. “People think that Athena is a Greek goddess but she’s not actually real. I thought it’d be cool to do a flip on that because she’s a magical creature.”
Athena has been understood as a hero and a villain; different interpretations have illustrated her acts as compassionate or hateful. This choice hits close to home for Parks. Before she was Sudan Archives, her stepfather Derrick Ladd, a record producer and co-founder of LaFace Records, tried to make her and her twin sister a pop duo. The project wasn’t a fit for her, resulting in the disbanding of the project and her final takeaway that she might be the “bad twin.”
Athena explores this binary understanding of morality. Its 14 tracks are a dynamic prism showcasing defiance, elegance, confidence, and whimsy. She elevates the violin as an object that is simultaneously precious and strong-willed. Similar to last year’s Sink EP, Athena is fluid and nimble. But it also stands firm. Sudan wields her strings like a clenched fist on the lead single “Confessions.” The adjacent track “Black Vivaldi Sonata” is both lush and anxious. She understands the instrument’s full potential, playfully unfolding its capabilities like a Jacob’s ladder.
It’s apparent that she puts it all out there in her work. She’s open and confident in her music, just as she is in conversation. Still, these backstories are raw and sensitive. Ahead of Athena’s release today, I spoke with Sudan Archives about each song on her new album. She provided a deeper look at her personal inspirations and periods of adversity — everything that formed the vivid and distant universe of Athena.
