
# Introducing The DAT - Providing Better Liquidity For Healthcare Fundraising?

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Stewart Southey**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/stewartsouthey/2019/11/05/introducing-the-datproviding-better-liquidity-for-healthcare-fundraising/)

In a recent article, I wrote about the UK company ReMeLife - how they are using blockchain technology to change the care industry and raising funds via a new concept called the DAT (or Decentralised Autonomous Trust). ReMeLife’s CEO, Simon Hooper, told me that when he first conceived of ReMeLife, the only realistic way to achieve initial capital was through crowdfunding. Now that ReMeLife is scaling, Hooper said, “We want to protect our early investors from dilution and enable ReMeLife’s members to share in the growth of the business. The DAT (also called the “Continuous Offering”) is the perfect solution”.Given the uniqueness, relative merits of this instrument, and the potential it has for healthcare (and other) companies to raise funds, I wanted to dig deeper.
The origins of the concept stem from Thibaud Favre, a technologist, entrepreneur and current CTO of the US company, Fairmint. He envisioned using separate bonding curves for the buying and selling of fractionalized pieces of a company’s future revenues.
Bonding curves have recently emerged as an interesting new mathematically based way to enable greater coordination and incentivisation between participants of a network to achieve shared goals. If Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) represented version one of blockchain-enabled economic models, bonding curves and the DAT, with its smart contracts, are perhaps version 3.0. Favre’s bonding curves claim to create a new flexible fundraising mechanism that, when compared to the current venture capital and blockchain-based models, better align the interests of various stakeholders in a company.
The DAT belongs to the new category of decentralized finance (DeFi): part blockchain, part traditional financial instrument. While it functions like a debt instrument such as a corporate bond to raise money, it doesn’t use the interest charged as the mechanism to incentivise the lender. Rather, it uses a Continuous Offering to issue fractionalized pieces of the debt instrument called FAIRs, a type of synthetic equity.
The price of FAIRs is then determined, through market forces, within the parameters and constraints of two bonding curves (one for the buy price of the FAIRs, and one for the sell price).  This allows for potentially much higher returns for investors than debt instruments that typically use interest.
To reduce investor’s risk, the DAT takes a small part of the investment (through the use of a smart contract) and adds it to a defined stream of revenue from the company, thus creating a buy-back reserve fund. This fund permits lenders to sell their FAIRs at any time after a reasonable holding period. Since the two bonding curves are different, there is a price spread between the higher buy price and the lower sell price that can be used to create a secondary market of trading of FAIRs.
Though the secondary market will likely be the place where most FAIR selling takes place, the investor can always sell FAIRs to the buy-back reserve fund if required. The reserve fund guarantees investor liquidity, unlike private shares which are highly illiquid. In this way, the DAT/Continuous Offering mechanism may offer an alternative to IPOs for driving investor liquidity in future investments.
The DAT is best suited for companies (like ReMeLife) that are beginning their growth phase and can use future revenues to collateralize the debt instrument to bring needed monies forward.
One of ReMeLife’s early investors is Sir Vince Cable, ex Leader of the UK’s Liberal Democrats, former Cabinet Minister and Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills. Mr Hooper kindly shared the following comments from Sir Cable who said “Having brought crowd funding to the UK and liberalized investment legislation, I remain keen to see the emergence of creative and democratized funding methodologies but naturally in an appropriate and regulated manner. The DAT, at early inspection, looks to be an interesting and potentially valuable answer to the problem of how best to capitalize on the potential for decentralized funding that blockchain clearly offers.”
A few forward-thinking European countries have been watching the DAT with interest. In Andorra, Iago Andreu, the General Manager of the Andorran Entrepreneurial Confederation (CEA), a union of companies in Andorra, thinks the DAT concept will create new opportunities for entrepreneurs to grow more efficiently - repositioning new business models to help them to remain competitive in the future.
Andreu says “Investors in Southern Europe are traditionally fearful, and too many investments are not made because of the perceived risk. The DAT concept with its buy-back reserve fund provides collateral similar to a real estate investment and significantly reduces investor risk”.
Marc Galabert, Andorra’s Economic Diversification State Secretary is supportive of new and innovative business models like the DAT – stating "The Andorran Government is committed to economic diversification and to new and innovative business models. To that end, we are exploring several market niches, such as the blockchain related activities, that have the potential to transform traditional models to higher value-added competitive industries".
The DAT/Continuous Offering concept is being formally launched at the Malta AI and Blockchain Summit on November 7-8, 2019.
Simon Hooper will be announcing ReMeLife’s DAT during two presentations at the Summit on November 7th and Thibaud Favre’s partner, Joris Delanoue, will also present Fairmint’s Continuous Offering platform. Andorra’s CEA will be represented on the DAT panel at the Malta Summit by Alex Armengol, who is one of Andreu’s colleagues, Coordinator of the Diversification Activities and a partner in DLT & Company, a private blockchain advisory.
Armengol is also very enthusiastic about the DAT, saying “The DAT concept is the disruptive innovation for corporate loans and capital risk investments—all in just one product that is secure, efficient and easy to implement”.
Malta seems to have the perfect soil for the concept. Kurt Farrugia, CEO of Malta Enterprise (Malta’s economic development agency) says that “At present, we are exploring together with other Maltese Government entities the potential that the DAT could offer to the local Maltese ecosystem. We remain focused on attracting to Malta highly innovative projects and providing them with the right support measures, facilities and business environment to expand globally. Malta’s vanguard regulatory framework also caters for the use of sandboxes which provides a useful platform to develop such ideas.”
The idea of a Malta sandbox to test the DAT concept is very attractive to ReMeLife’s Hooper and his DAT advisor, Randy Boyer, CEO of Network Society Lab. “Malta is the perfect place to test the DAT concept.” Boyer continues, “The Maltese government is very forward thinking concerning blockchain-based fundraising concepts and the new Malta Digital Innovation Authority (MDIA) is the ideal partner to audit the DAT smart contract to provide additional investor comfort and reduce investor risk”.
Malta and Andorra aren’t the only countries that are interested in the concept.
In Spain, Xavier Gasia, an experienced blockchain lawyer at Addvante law firm, currently has a client with significant revenues and returns that could be interested in the alternative finance mechanism provided by the DAT concept.
Gasia says “The DAT concept reduces investor risks with a better liquidity operated by the platform and constitute certainly an alternative fundraising mechanism to traditional markets for commercial corporations. The growth potential of the DAT concept in the financial markets is truly huge”.
It will be very interesting to see what happens with the DAT and how well it works for fundraising. If it proves to be more robust than the ICO, IEO and STO models, it may well be a mechanism that galvanizes healthcare projects as they look to scale. For now, if you are interested in funding yours, head down to Malta – it may be a game changer.
