
# Redskins request joint committee to review Trent Williams’ medic

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Adam Zielonka**

Original: [The Washington Times](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2019/nov/1/redskins-request-joint-committee-to-review-trent-w/)

The Washington Redskins announced they have requested a joint committee with the league and the players’ association to review the medical care the team provided to tackle Trent Williams.
Williams ended his months-long holdout Tuesday and reported to the Redskins, but has not committed to playing in 2019. As the Redskins‘ rift with Williams continues, the joint committee appears to be the next step to coming to a solution.
He said the growth he had removed from his scalp was cancerous and first had been brought to his attention six years ago. He added that he still respects owner Dan Snyder, but expressed frustration with how president Bruce Allen and the medical staff handled his situation.
Read the Redskins‘ full statement below:
“The Washington Redskins have requested that the NFL’s Management Council convene a joint committee with the NFLPA to review the medical records and the medical care given to Trent Williams. We have requested this review under the NFL’s Collective Bargaining Agreement that provides for an independent third party review of any NFL player’s medical care. The Redskins continue to prioritize the health and well-being of our players and staff. Due to healthcare and privacy regulations, we are unable to comment further at this time. We look forward to the joint committee’s results.”

          Manage Newsletters
        
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission.
 
