
# I call it self-partnered: Emma Watson on being single

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:31:43+00:00**

Author: **Entertainment Desk**

Original: [The Express Tribune](https://tribune.com.pk/story/2094610/4-call-self-partnered-emma-watson-single/)

British actor and human rights advocate Emma Watson has something to say on being single.
The Harry Potter star seems to be a stark contrast to her character Meg in the upcoming rendition of Little Women, who gravitates toward the confines of marriage and motherhood. Yet, the woman who plays her in the 2019 film is just fine being single, thanks. Only, according to Watson, don’t call it that, reported InStyle.
While Watson seems self-assured, the actor admits to British Vogue that she’s struggled with the idea of turning 30 next year. “I was like, ‘Why does everyone make such a big fuss about turning 30? This is not a big deal. Cut to 29, and I’m like, ‘Oh my God, I feel so stressed and anxious. And I realize it’s because there is suddenly this bloody influx of subliminal messaging around,” she said.
“If you have not built a home, if you do not have a husband, if you do not have a baby, and you are turning 30, and you’re not in some incredibly secure, stable place in your career, or you’re still figuring things out. There’s just this incredible amount of anxiety.”
And though it wasn’t always the case, Watson says she’s genuinely happy to be single right now. “I never believed the whole ‘I’m happy single’ spiel,” she told the outlet. “I was like, ‘This is totally spiel.’ It took me a long time, but I’m very happy [being single]. I call it being self-partnered.”
This year, there was speculation that Watson could be dating her Harry Potter co-star Tom Felton. Various Instagram pictures of the duo had egged on fans to speculate whether the two are dating. However, no confirmation of the romantic notion has been confirmed by neither Watson or Felton.
