
# Callum McGregor targets life long Celtic stay as Hoops hero declares delight at new deal

Published at: **2019-11-06T22:29:00+00:00**

Author: **Craig Swan, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/craig-swan/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/callum-mcgregor-hails-lengthy-celtic-20828686)

Callum McGregor last night insisted he wants to be at Celtic for life.
The Parkhead hero signed a bumper new five-year deal just prior to boarding the flight to Italy for tonight’s Europa League crunch against Lazio.
McGregor is delighted to have penned the agreement which ties him to the champions until 2024.
However, with the ink barely dry on the contract, the 26-year-old has confessed that he’s already looking beyond his current commitment and the definite prospect of spending the rest of his days in the Hoops.
Asked if he could stay for life, McGregor nodded: “Yeah, I think so. It’s a real possibility. It’s a massive statement from the club.
“Obviously, I really value how highly they regard me at the club as well.
“I am certainly looking forward to the next few years. Hopefully we can extend that even further and I could end up finishing my career at Celtic.
“The club has been great with me. I have just been busy in playing football and trying to help the team, but it’s good to get it over the line and get that stability for the new few years going forward.
“It was a no-brainer to go and sign on the dotted line. It’s a massive point in my career and the club recognised that as well.
“I have a big four or five years coming up and the gaffer has been great since he came in. He’s been amazing and there has been an easy transition from last season.
 
“I am delighted to get it all done and I was really pleased the club gave me it.
“Coming from where I started, as an eight-year-old, I have been here for 18 years now. To extend that to 20-plus years would be an amazing thing.
“It shows I am well regarded at the club when they hand you a big, big contract at this point.
“For me, it’s about trying to repay the club and keep playing well.”
Manager Neil Lennon was just as thrilled to see the agreement secured just days after tying down James Forrest and Scott Bain.
McGregor was the subject of interest from Leicester City and Bournemouth in the summer, but coped with the links without losing form or focus and his boss said: “I think it’ll ease his mind and put to bed any speculation about him, but it hasn’t affected his performances.
“It’s great for us and great for the group that he committed and he’s deserved it.
“I’ve said it many times I don’t take his performances for granted and he’s only going to get better. His best years are ahead of him and he’s going to be pivotal in how we play against Lazio.
“I’m delighted with the board’s attitude. Jamesie, Scott Bain and a couple of others we are in talks with, but to get Callum over the line is great for us because there is no doubt there was interest from elsewhere and we all know that.
“Now matter who you are, he’s a human being, and being linked with other clubs can be unsettling, but he’s never let that manifest itself in his performances and he’s really pleased to get it over the line as well.
“The world is his oyster, if you want to call it that.”
Lennon knows there may still be future interest from elsewhere in such a talented individual, but says McGregor’s relishes being at Celtic.
He added: “He’s committed to us and it would take a lot of money now to prize him away, but he seems happy now and it will settle him.”
