
# GeM woking on framework to ensure timely payment to sellers

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **PTI**

Original: [Moneycontrol](https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/business/gem-woking-on-framework-to-ensure-timely-payment-to-sellers-4616601.html)

Public procurement portal Government e-Marketplace (GeM) is working on framework for ensuring payment to sellers within a guaranteed time frame, a senior official said.
"We are working on a proposal wherein we will have a regime by which sellers would get payments in a specified time," GeM Chief Executive Officer Talleen Kumar said.
He said that currently, the time frame for payment is 10 days but it gets extended and causes problem to sellers.

        Close
      
The platform is also looking at ways through which banks can lend to sellers.
"Through this process, banks can provide working capital for MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises). We can give transaction data to banks and based on transaction history of a seller and looking at their performance and rating, banks can lend. This kind of facility is possible on GeM," he said.
Currently, MSMEs face problems in getting credit.
For this, the platform is working on a robust online seller and buyer rating mechanisms which will allow sellers to avail working capital loans where the cost of capital is linked to the performance and rating of sellers.
This will also help buyers to procure from highly rated sellers in critical areas of procurement, he said.
Further, he said the platform would set up GeM Organisational and Transformation Team (GOTT) in the buyer organisations on an outcome-based self-sustenance model to realign the procurement process in that organisation and leverage the marketplace procurement platform to its fullest potential.
It is also looking at ways to take on board artisans, weavers, start-ups which are not recognised by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, and self-help groups on the platform so that they can offer their goods, a senior official said.
"We are working to give space for emporium products. The idea is how we can leverage GeM to increase incomes of artisans, weavers, and craftsman," he told reporters.
Work is underway to factor in technical solutions so that working capital and traceability of the items are available to buyers and sellers on the platform.
More than 3,000 start-ups are already registered on GeM and they have received orders amounting to Rs 522 crore till date.
Over 58,100 MSMEs are registered on the platform and they account for 50 per cent of the entire transactional value, which stood at Rs 36,000 crore.
Further, he added that the commerce ministry is looking to widen the ambit of the platform by including government contractors and private entities for bulk-buying.
Currently, government departments, ministries, public sector units, state governments, and Central Armed Police Forces are allowed to carry out transactions through this portal.
The portal was launched in August 2016 for online purchase of goods and services by all the central government ministries and departments as well as states.
The portal provides a wide ranging products from office stationery to vehicles. Automobiles, computers and office furniture are currently the top product categories.
Services, including transportation, logistics, waste management, web casting and analytical, among others, are listed on the portal.Special Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI
