
# Rod Stewart is unrecognisable as he cuts a low-key figure during shopping trip

Published at: **2019-11-06T17:30:41+00:00**

Author: **Sara-Aisha Kent, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sara-aisha-kent/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/rod-stewart-unrecognisable-cuts-low-20826801)

Rod Stewart has a face recognised around the globe and millions in the bank.
However, the rocker appears to enjoy incognito outings as he cut a low-key figure that made him totally unrecognisable in the Italian capital of Rome on Tuesday.
The Maggie May hitmaker, 74, ensured he was not mobbed by fans by concealing his famous features.
He sported a tweed flat-cap atop of his trademark mullet and wrapped a silk scarf - decorated with a paisley leaf design - around his neck.
Rod seems to like to stay down - to - earth as he was spotted shopping in high street retailer Zara during his solo shopping trip where he examined different jeans and chinos for sale and tried on a coat.
Inside the store he was helped by an assistant and at one point he took off his outdoor accessories which allowed his face to been seen.
Continuing his trendy display, under his coat her wore a white shirt - which was partially unbuttoned - and decorated his neck with a silver chain and large pendant and gem-encrusted cross.
It comes after the Grammy Award winner shared the secret to his and his wife’s 12-year marriage is never seeing each other.
The pop legend, who married model and Loose Women panellist Penny Lancaster in 2007, said: “Penny and I like our silence. We live in a very big house and we don’t bump into each other for hours on end.”
Rod is father to eight children, six of which are from previous relationships.
He has two children with 48-year-old Penny - Alastair, 13, and Aiden, seven.
He was previously married to Rachel Hunter, and Alana Hamilton.
The singer recently revealed last he had won a battle with prostate cancer.
He told how he was diagnosed with the disease in February 2016 during a routine checkup and secretly fought it for three years.
Sir Rod opened up about his prostate cancer during a fundraising evening with former Faces bandmates Kenney Jones and Ronnie Wood.
He said: “No one knows this, but I thought this was about time I told everybody. I’m in the clear, now, simply because I caught it early. I have so many tests.”
Addressing the men directly, he pleaded: “Guys, you’ve got to really go to the doctor.”
And he had the crowd in stitches when he said of the physical examination for the disease: “Finger up the bum, no harm done.”
He said: “If you’re positive, and you work through it and you keep a smile on your face...I’ve worked for two years and I’ve just been happy, and the good Lord looked after me.”
