
# Suicide prevention bill back before legislature, but minister prefers review

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:56:00+00:00**

Author: **Arthur White-Crummey**

Original: [Regina Leader-Post](https://leaderpost.com/news/saskatchewan/suicide-prevention-bill-back-before-legislature-but-minister-prefers-review)

Saskatchewan’s Ministry of Health is examining how other provinces are combating suicide to see what it can learn, but the government isn’t committing to a prevention strategy supported by the opposition.
Health Minister Jim Reiter made the announcement on Tuesday shortly before an NDP MLA introduced a private member’s bill calling on the government to develop a suicide prevention strategy. A similar attempt failed when the spring session ended in May.
“I’ve asked the Ministry of Health to do a jurisdictional scan to look at other provinces that have suicide prevention strategies in place,” Reiter said. “In Saskatchewan, we have the Mental Health and Addictions Action Plan. I’ve asked them to see if there’s any gaps.”
He suggested the issue may be more about adopting best practices from elsewhere than it is about funding.
Doyle Vermette, the NDP MLA for Cumberland, said it’s time for the government and the opposition to work together in a non-partisan way to tackle an ongoing tragedy. He stood with families who lost their daughters to suicide in Saskatchewan’s north about three years ago.
His plan calls for consultations to develop a strategy that includes targets and reporting on efforts to achieve them. His bill calls on the Saskatchewan Health Authority to treat suicide as a “health and safety” priority, but does not suggest measures beyond increased information, awareness, collaboration, research and best practices.
Private member’s bills cannot call on the government to spend more money.
“People are tired,” Vermette said. “They don’t want to lose one more loved one. So whatever they need to do to come together to help, that’s what they’re calling for. And I think, to me, the government could do this easy.”
NDP deputy leader Nicole Sarauer pressed the government to get behind Vermette’s bill during question period on Tuesday. She pointed to figures that show the suicide rates among First Nations people are far higher than for non-Indigenous Saskatchewanians. But suicide can strike any community.
“Over 2,200 people have died from suicide in Saskatchewan since 2005,” she said. “Much more needs to be done to ensure no more lives are lost, and that starts, Mr. Speaker, with a strategy.”
But Reiter said the difference between a strategy and an action plan is one of semantics. He said the task is now to look at what’s working elsewhere to see if it can be replicated in Saskatchewan.
“To me what matters is what actions are you taking, what programs you make available, where are you targeting your resources, so that’s what I want to see,” he said.
Sally Ratt, a mother who lost her 12-year-old daughter Ariana to suicide, has a sense of where resources are needed. What she said were her daughter’s struggles to get mental health support point the way.
“I tried to get my daughter help and her appointments were two weeks, three weeks and months down the road, and she needed the help now,” she said in the legislative rotunda, standing alongside Vermette.
Another grieving mother, Linda Roberts, agreed that more counsellors and mental health support is needed in the north.
“We need to help these youth,” she said. “These youth are so important to us. They’re just screaming for help.
“I’ve lost two nephews in the last two years to suicide in La Ronge and, you know, it doesn’t get any easier.”
Ratt called Reiter’s announcement “a start.”
Vermette said the NDP will be eager to see what comes out of the scan the minister promised.
“Is it going to be enough? I hope it is…” he said. “But there’s a lot more work that needs to be done. We can’t lose any more of our loved ones.
“Actions will speak louder than words. So we’ll be watching this closely.”

        awhite-crummey@postmedia.com
      
