
# Drop Everything Because Amazon Has a Bunch of Fashion Deals Right Now

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:59:00+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Cosmopolitan](https://www.cosmopolitan.com/style-beauty/fashion/g29666599/shop-amazon-fall-fashion-deals-2019/)

You know you need more comfy sweaters (or you’re at least convincing yourself you do), and that’s where Amazon’s fall fashion deals come in. Now through November 21, there are tons of discounts happening on the retailer’s own brands plus sales on THE Amazon coat; 15 percent off bras, underwear, and sleepwear; 70 percent off women’s clothing; and a LOT more. So start filling your cart before they end so you can have the perfect ’fit for that jumping-in-the-leaves Boomerang. (No judgment.)
Yomoko amazon.com $25.99 SHOP NOW
Peep this cute animal-print V-neck! It has an almost perfect 5-star rating and a roomy batwing silhouette for layering.
BLENCOT amazon.com $19.99 SHOP NOW
A lace-trim cold-shoulder shirt is perfect for fall and winter since it has more coverage, but it’s also dressy enough for a festive party.
Rainy Show amazon.com $59.99 $25.98 (57% off) SHOP NOW
A pair of waterproof boots with more than 150 reviews and an almost perfect 5-star rating is definitely going to get use once snow hits.
Double Couple amazon.com $14.99 SHOP NOW
You get two accessories for the price of one with a hat and matching circular knit scarf. It has more than 70 5-star reviews with comments saying it’s warm, comfortable, and v cute.
Dokotoo amazon.com $28.99 SHOP NOW
Zip yourself up in this Sherpa jacket that is cozy and gives off those winter vibes. It also comes in gray and a dusty rose if those are more your colors.
ROMWE amazon.com $19.99 SHOP NOW
A blouse with a bow at the neck and some extra ruffles will definitely stand out from your other tops.
Hush Puppies amazon.com $114.95 $91.96 (20% off) SHOP NOW
Select Hush Puppies footwear is 20 percent off, and this black pair with contrast trim is a staple for any fall wardrobe.
Kate Kasin amazon.com $19.99 $12.64 (37% off) SHOP NOW
There are also tons of limited-time deals happening, like this stylish one-shoulder crop top at 37 percent off.
RockDove amazon.com $14.99 SHOP NOW
This pair of faux-fur slides is made for lounging around the house, and the same style in pink is 32 percent off.
ROMWE amazon.com $16.99 SHOP NOW
You can also save 30 percent on select styles from ROMWE, like this fun mesh-sleeve burgundy top.
Orolay amazon.com $139.99 $107.09 (24% off) SHOP NOW
Don’t miss out on the opportunity to snag this baby at a discount. You know you’ve always wanted to buy it because of all the amazing reviews, and now’s your moment!
ECOSUSI amazon.com $10.99 SHOP NOW
Step up your accessory game with a luxe-looking wine-colored crossbody bag at a way affordable price point. It’s roomy enough for all your necessities and has a perfect rating. Impressive, right?
IDIFU amazon.com $32.99 $28.04 (15% off) SHOP NOW
Need some new shoes in your life? Opt for a leopard-print pair that’ll go with just about anything. Plus, your feet will also stay in place because of the secure buckle.
THREE KEYS JEWELRY amazon.com $11.99 $8.39 (30% off) SHOP NOW
Whether you want an initial necklace for yourself or for a friend, a rose-gold one looks so stylish on its own or layered with more pieces.
She's Style amazon.com $22.99 $13.99 (39% off) SHOP NOW
This style has over 500 reviews and more than 4 stars, so the people have spoken. If you are looking for a slightly oversize shirt to binge Netflix in or need a sweater for layering, this is the one.
Barabum amazon.com $17.99 SHOP NOW
PVC bags are trending, so treat yourself to one without dropping a ton of dough with this cute style. It’s available in a bunch of other hues, too, and the beige colorway is less than $10, folks!
Amazon Essentials amazon.com $17.74 SHOP NOW
Since you can take 15 percent off bras, underwear, and sleepwear from Amazon brands, maybe it’s finally time to upgrade your pj’s? This nightshirt looks more elevated with its contrasting piping, but it’s still comfy enough for bed. I’m sold.
Lauren Adhav Assistant Fashion Editor I'm Cosmopolitan's Assistant Fashion Editor and write about any and all trends, major celeb fashion moments, and why wide leg jeans are basically the best.
