
# Shopee holds first-ever 11.11 big Christmas TV special

Published at: **2019-11-07T13:59:17+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/shopee-holds-first-ever-11-11-big-christmas-tv-special/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Shopee, the leading e-commerce platform in Southeast Asia and Taiwan, will be holding its first-ever televised show, the 11.11 Big Christmas TV Special on November 10 at 10:30 PM, aired on GMA7 and Shopee Live. The star-studded show will feature performances by popular GMA stars, Alden Richards, Maine Mendoza, and Heart Evangelista, in an exciting live countdown to the finale of the Shopee 11.11 Big Christmas Sale on 11 November. In addition, it will also include the premiere of the latest Shopee’s jingle, exclusively composed by Jose Mari Chan for this year’s festive season.
Martin Yu, Associate Director at Shopee Philippines, said, “Christmas is an important holiday for Filipinos, and we are thrilled to kickstart the celebrations in the biggest way possible with our very first televised Christmas concert, the Shopee 11.11 Big Christmas TV Special. With this, we hope to deepen engagement with our users by bringing them closer to their favorite stars and brands, and also to foster the festive spirit in the Philippines. We invite everyone to join in the excitement on 10 November as we count down together to our 11.11 Big Christmas Sale. ”  
With over ₱11 million worth of prizes, deals, and discounts including a house and lot is at stake, get a chance to win exciting prizes including a Rusi Mojo 200 motorcycle, Toyota Fortuner, and a house and lot from Avida by tuning in to 3 special Shopee Shake sessions during the program.
Customers can enjoy on that day free shipping with ₱0 – minimum spend, amazing discounts of up to 70% from leading brands like Unilever, Pampers, Maybelline, Anker, and Perfetti van Melle during the show, up to 90% off deals during the finale of Shopee 11.11 for mobile phones such as the Xiaomi Redmi 7 and Redmi 7A.
Shoppers can also avail exclusive deals from leading brands such as Silverworks, Bosch, Olay, Pantene, Globe, Safeguard, Watsons, and Huawei and get an additional 12% off when checking out with a Metrobank card. Also, enjoy two months’ worth of load for free when buying Cignal Ultimate Prepaid HD at only ₱2,290 during the sale.
Find out more about Shopee 11.11 Big Christmas Sale at https://www.shopee.ph/1111.
Download the Shopee app for free via the App Store or Google Play.
