
# Grab The Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 With The S Pen For $200 Off

Published at: **2019-11-06T20:07:55+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Headlines](https://www.androidheadlines.com/2019/11/grab-the-samsung-galaxy-tab-s4-with-the-s-pen-for-200-off.html)

At the moment you can grab a Galaxy Tab S4 on sale from Samsung for just $449.99 through Amazon. That's a whopping $200 off the standard retail price, so you're getting a pretty big savings here.
This is for the 64GB model, and it comes in Black as well as with the S Pen. You can also grab the 256GB model on sale for $549.99, which is also $200 off the standard price.
When it comes to Android tablets, Samsung's Galaxy Tab S line are some of the best you'll find. They're quality made and they actually feel high-quality. Which isn't something you can say for all Android tablets.
Advertisement
The Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 boasts a large list of desirable tablet features. For example it comes with 10.5-inch display, it uses a Super AMOLED panel, and it's perfect for work or play. of course for work you may need some of the accessories, like the keyboard case.
If you want the tablet more for entertainment purposes, it's equipped for that too. The 10.5-inch Super AMOLED display is one part of that. The other part is the cinematic experience you get thanks to the Dolby Atmos surround sound support.
Android 8.0 Oreo is the version of software which comes on this device. That said there may already be an update for it to Android 9 Pie. As that software version started rolling out to US owners of the tablet back in April of 2019.
Advertisement
Of course the biggest reason to go for the Galaxy Tab S4 over other Android options, save for the sale price, is the S Pen. The S Pen really amps up the capabilities of what you can do with the Galaxy Tab S4. Whether it's drawing or anything else, the S Pen helps the Galaxy Tab S4 stand out.
All that's left to decide is whether you need 64GB or 256GB of space.

        Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 64GB - Amazon - $449.99
      
Advertisement

        Samsung Galaxy Tab S4 256GB - Amazon - $549.99
      
