
# Macaulay Culkin Recreates Screaming ‘Home Alone’ Scene In Happy Socks Holiday Ad

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Izza Sofia**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407216/Macaulay-Culkin-Recreates-Screaming-Home-Alone-Scene-In-Happy-Socks-Holiday-Ad/)

Left image via IMDb, right image via Happy Socks Macaulay Culkin has teamed up with sock brand Happy Socks for an adorable capsule perfect for the holiday season. The Naughty or Nice collection sees three festive designs featuring Culkin’s logo from his Bunny Ears comedy brand. Retailing for US$48, the socks are available to purchase in stores and online at happysocks.com. The collaboration also offers wrapping options and customizable boxes for you to gift your loved ones. Happy Socks’ co-founder Viktor Tell said that it’s not quite the holiday season “unless there’s socks under the tree” and Culkin on the television, so the company meshed both together for a “wonderful seasonal delight.” The collaboration also comes with a campaign video, which opens with Culkin petting an iguana donning a red bow. The camera then pans towards Culkin’s feet, showing off his polka-dot socks that feature cute white snowmen. Advertisement Advertisement The ad is full of quirky moments, from Culkin joking in front of a watercolor painting to him shouting, “I’m too old for this sh*t,” while donning a color-block sweater, tweed pans and a pair of red snowman socks. One scene in particular sees Culkin recreating his famous Home Alone scene, in which his character Kevin McCallister screeches after applying his father’s aftershave on his face. “Both Happy Socks and I have really good taste in spokesmen,” said Culkin. “But yeah, Christmas is my time of year. I get recognized 10 times more between the months of November and January. I have no idea why.”
