
# The 10 Best Tech Gifts For Men

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christian de Looper**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-finds/2019/11/01/the-10-best-tech-gifts-for-men/)

Shopping for the perfect gift for the tech-loving gentleman in your life? Sometimes it can be tough to find a gift that he’ll really like, but thankfully, you don’t necessarily have to spend thousands of dollars. We’ve done the research so that you don’t have to. Here are the best tech gifts for men.
The iPad is one of the most versatile gifts you could give. Into reading? You can use it to read e-books. Prefer to watch movies on your downtime? Netflix and Amazon Prime Video work perfect here. Or perhaps you simply want to browse social media and research things on the Web. Check. The entry-level iPad offers an Apple A10 Fusion chip, along with a 10.2-inch display and a classic design that anyone will love. The battery will get you through up to 10 hours of use too, which is more than enough for most days.

        SHOP NOW
      
Music streaming services are great, but there’s nothing quite like the sound and routine of playing vinyl records. Audio Technica makes plenty of great turntables, like the Audio Technica AT-LP60-BT, which allows you to easily play at both 33-1/3 and 45 RPM. Not only that, but this player has a slightly high-tech touch too, offering Bluetooth connectivity that allows you to listen through a Bluetooth speaker or Bluetooth headphones.

        SHOP NOW
      
Speaking of wireless speakers, perhaps the best one out there is the Sonos One. The Sonos One is not only pretty well-designed, coming in a sleek black or white color-scheme, but it’s smart too – offering either Google Assistant or Alexa built right into the speaker. Even better is the fact that the speaker sounds great, offering plenty of bass, a well-tuned midrange, and a ton of clarity and detail in the high frequencies.

        SHOP NOW
      
If you’re looking for a gift for an adventurer, then the GoPro Hero7 Black might be the way to go. The GoPro Hero7 Black is an action camera that can shoot footage at up to a hefty 4K resolution and a frame rate of 60 frames per second. Safe to say, the camera can shoot some pretty high-quality footage. On the back, the camera has a touch display to help you see your footage and control settings, and a smaller monochrome display on the front for basic information when you’re filming yourself.

        SHOP NOW
      
The Nest Cam IQ is a great way to step up home security. The camera sits neatly on a table or shelf, and can film when you’re not home, at night or at any other time. The camera is pretty well-designed and has some pretty smart features too. For example, the device has the ultra-smart Google Assistant built right into it, meaning that you can talk to the camera to get information from the Web, control other smart home device and more.

        SHOP NOW
      
Looking for a gift for a gamer? The Nintendo Switch is perhaps the coolest gaming console of the past few years, thanks to the fact that it can be used as a portable handheld console or in the living room on the TV. There are a ton of great games available to the console, including Super Mario Odyssey and Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, and there are plenty of great multiplayer games too, for playing with friends.

        SHOP NOW
      
The Amazon Echo is perhaps the smartest smart speaker out there, with Amazon Alexa built right into it. The speaker is pretty well-designed, coming in a few different colors, and it sounds great too—so if you want to use it for listening to music, you can. The Amazon Echo should look and sound great in any home.

        SHOP NOW
      
The Apple Watch Series 5 is the latest and greatest model of the Apple Watch, offering awesome features like an always-on display and a compass built right in. Like previous models, the device offers excellent fitness-tracking features and can be used to track a range of activities, including running, walking, swimming, and so on. The Apple Watch Series 5 will look great on anyone’s wrist.

        SHOP NOW
      
Drones are a ton of fun, and DJI makes some of the best of them. The DJI Spark isn’t as expensive as some of DJI’s higher-end drones, but it still has a ton to offer, including a 16-minute flying time, a camera that can capture 1,080p video and more. The drone is relatively small and portable too—making it easy to take on your travels.

        SHOP NOW
      
A great pair of noise-canceling headphones can transform the travel experience, and the Sony WH-1000XM3 is one of the best out there. The headphones offer excellent noise-cancelation tech that can block out all that plane engine, train or street noise, and they sound great too—so whether you’re listening to music, podcasts or anything else, you’ll hear it with plenty of detail.

        SHOP NOW
      
