
# Increased Screen Time Linked to Lower Brain Development in Children - Study

Published at: **2019-11-06T00:52:16+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Sputniknews](https://sputniknews.com/society/201911061077232503-increased-screen-time-linked-to-lower-brain-development-in-children---study/)

The study, which was published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics on Monday, was conducted by the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. The participants consisted of 47 children (27 girls and 20 boys) between the ages of three and five. The participants underwent resonance brain imaging and cognitive testing, and their parents were asked to complete a survey regarding their children’s screen time, answering questions related to frequency, type of screen and content.
"This study raises questions as to whether at least some aspects of screen-based media use in early childhood may provide sub-optimal stimulation during this rapid, formative state of brain development," lead author of the study John Hutton is quoted as saying by Science Daily. "While we can't yet determine whether screen time causes these structural changes or implies long-term neurodevelopmental risks, these findings warrant further study to understand what they mean and how to set appropriate limits on technology use."
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that children under the age of 18 months avoid screens altogether, other than for video-chatting. 
“Parents of children 18 to 24 months of age who want to introduce digital media should choose high-quality programming, and watch it with their children to help them understand what they're seeing,” the AAP guidelines read. Meanwhile, children aged between two and five should “limit screen use to 1 hour per day of high quality programs.”
Hutton also pointed out that screen time among children is increasing not just at home, but also in other settings.
"Screen-based media use is prevalent and increasing in home, childcare and school settings at ever younger ages," Hutton said. "These findings highlight the need to understand effects of screen time on the brain, particularly during stages of dynamic brain development in early childhood, so that providers, policymakers and parents can set healthy limits."
