
# 'Anti-vax' mum claims she gave out chickenpox-infected lollipops on Halloween

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:57:13+00:00**

Author: **Tiffany Lo**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/anti-vax-mum-claims-gave-20792734)

An 'anti-vaxx' mum has claimed she gave out lollipops tainted with the chickenpox virus to 'trick-or-treaters' on Halloween .
Aussie mum Sarah Walker, who claimed to be a registered nurse on her Facebook profile, shared her plan on a group known as 'Stop Mandatory Vaccination'.
She explained that her son has contracted chickenpox and would like to 'help others with natural immunity'.
Her post continued: "We have the packaging opening and closing down pat and can't wait to help others in our community.
"If anyone else would like some for their children happy to send via post for $1 plus postage to your location."
 
Her message was soon shared to ' Light for Riley ', a page dedicated to a baby boy who died from whooping cough four years ago.
Riley's father, Greg Hughes, wrote in response: "Have you ever seen something that instantaneously makes your skin crawl?
"The woman responsible for this post is claiming to be a nurse in a Brisbane children's hospital.
"It's not often I'm lost for words but this just about does it."
Parents were shocked and left fuming when they read about it.
'Gerard Vance' said: "Sending a virus by post is domestic terrorism and they should be jailed."
'Chantal Bos Bosch' wrote: "This is sick beyond words. Those poor kids. Not worthy to be a nurse either. And willingly spreading it to others is potential murder. What a sick individual."
Mr Hughes went on to report the post to the hospital, the nurse practitioner and the press.
Yahoo News reported that Walker claims to be a nurse at the 'Royal Children's Hospital, Brisbane' on her Facebook page.
And Queensland Health, the parent company of the above named hospital commented under the post to confirm there is no such employee under the name Sarah Walker.
"There are no current or former employees by that name that have worked for Queensland Health as a registered nurse. This is a serious issue and has been referred to police, who are investigation," it stated.
Walker then replied in her post and blamed the web users for trying to get her fired.
She said: "The health and well-being of my baby is far more valuable than any job.
"You say I'm vile an gross like I have done something that hundreds of thousands of parents haven't already done.
"How many times do you see children dropped off to day care or school when they're clearly sick and contagious?
"Exactly! And I'm offering life long immunity for the price of a couple of blisters and a few days off school."
Queensland Health told new.com.au that the risk of chickenpox transmission from such tainted lollipops would be extremely low as the virus does not survive long on surfaces.
If Walker were to be found guilty of food tampering or making false claims to do so, she could face up to 15 years in prison.
