
# I will choose State functions to attend, Maraga says decrying humiliation by Executive

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:02:35+00:00**

Author: **Mary Thuo**

Original: [Capital News](https://www.capitalfm.co.ke/news/2019/11/i-will-choose-state-functions-to-attend-maraga-says-decrying-humiliation-by-executive/)


        NAIROBI, Kenya, Nov 4 – Chief Justice David Maraga Monday threated to boycott State functions citing frustrations by the Executive arm.
      
Maraga told a press conference he will now be choosing functions he will attend accusing the Executive of undermining the Judiciary.
ADVERTISEMENT
“The last Mashujaa Day, the CJ was allowed to walk to the dais through a sidewalk and the MC did not acknowledge his arrival despite doing it to other people,” he remarked.
“I’ve decided that unless I’m treated with dignity due to my office, I will choose which of those functions to attend.”
He said the Judiciary had been treated with contempt including at State House where according to Maraga, protocol officers would keep him waiting for clearance with preference given to junior officials in government.
He stated the judiciary had been treated contemptuously as other arms of the government are highly respected and given priority, even in state house.
The frustrations notwithstanding, the Chief Justice vowed to continue with his term to the end.
“It appears that some of us are serving at their own pleasure and not of the public,” Maraga said referring to unknown Principal Secretaries who were reported to have claimed the CJ was headed for an early exit.
He said he will not allow the vetting magistrates and judges unless the vetting is countrywide, and the other arms of government are subjected to the process.
Post Views: 146
GET TOP NEWS FOR THE DAY DIRECT TO YOUR INBOX
Please leave this field empty
Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.
