
# Jho Low is not in Cyprus — IGP

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:34:50+00:00**

Author: **Bernama**

Original: [The Edge Markets](https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/jho-low-not-cyprus-%E2%80%94-igp)

KUALA LUMPUR (Nov 6): The Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Abdul Hamid Bador said the police believe fugitive businessman Low Taek Jho or Jho Low is still hiding in a remote country and not in the island of Cyprus.
"I have told you, it's impossible for him to get out of his hiding place so easily. He is still there hiding like a chicken,” he said without elaborating or identifying the said country.
He said the Malaysian police had taken various approaches in negotiating with the Government and the authorities of the country concerned, both formally and informally, in efforts to repatriate Jho Low.
Speaking to reporters after launching the Commercial Crime Investigation Manual and Commercial Crime Investigation Department Director’s Investigative Directives Handbook at the Royal Malaysian Police College in Cheras, here today, Abdul Hamid said he was disappointed when his requests with regard to Jho Low were not entertained by the country.
“The issue is that the country's money has been robbed. I'll keep trying...I'm not giving up. I will continue to give them reasons why they should assist me. This is a criminal issue. It has no strategic or political importance to a country.
“All this while, I have cooperated with the relevant parties in police matters. I was very disappointed when my requests were ignored... according to the intelligence I have, he is still in the country," he said.
There have been recent reports stating that Jho Low, who has been linked to the alleged financial scandal involving 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) was using a Cyprus passport.
Meanwhile, Abdul Hamid revealed the police had obtained information that Jho Low was trying to buy property in Cyprus under the name of an unidentified person.
He said the information was obtained after the police arrested several individuals linked to Jho Low a few weeks ago.
"We quietly made some arrests about three to four weeks ago. From these arrests, we were able to uncover some things... we got information that Jho Low is trying to buy property under someone else’s name in Cyprus,” he said.
Abdul Hamid said Bukit Aman’s Anti-Money Laundering Crime Investigation (AMLA) team was also actively looking for new leads on Jho Low.
"The AMLA team are working hard day and night to study the existing leads (including the Cyprus issue)," he said.
