
# Nigel Owens left in tears by gesture from Owen Farrell and All Blacks captain Kieran Read

Published at: **2019-11-02T08:26:40+00:00**

Author: **Online Editors**

Original: [Rugbypass](https://www.rugbypass.com/news/nigel-owens-left-in-tears-by-gesture-from-all-blacks-captain)


        
          NZ Herald
        
      
World Rugby referee Nigel Owens has opened up on his experience at the 2019 Rugby World Cup while revealing the heartwarming gesture made by All Blacks captain Kieran Read which left him in tears.
In a column for Wales Online, Owens reflected on the past eight weeks in Japan ahead of his duties as fourth official during tonight’s final between England and South Africa in Yokohama.
Along with praising the World Cup as a “brilliant” edition of the tournament, Owens, who officiated last week’s semifinal between the All Blacks and England, said it was a gesture made by Read and England captain Owen Farrell which he considered the highlight.
“There was also a lovely moment at the end of the game when, unbeknown to me, my TMO Marius Jonker had arranged for Owen Farrell and Kieran Read, the respective captains, to sign the match ball for me,” he wrote.

        Click here to see the video
      
“Marius and my touch judges held a little presentation in the changing room when they handed over the ball. I can tell you there was a little tear in my eyes, I got a bit emotional, knowing it was my final World Cup game and this was such a lovely note upon which to finish.
“Owen and Kieran had each written ‘Best wishes Nige.’ They are a credit to the sport, two top quality players, but who are also brilliant captains and are impressive characters on and off the pitch.
“From my own experience as a referee, you rarely get a moment’s trouble with either of them. Very dignified individuals, great role models.”
