
# What Women Want in a Short Term Relationship, According to Study

Published at: **2019-11-06T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Christina Majaski**

Original: [AskMen](https://www.askmen.com/news/dating/what-women-want-in-a-short-term-relationship-according-to-study.html)

Women can be a mystery to some men and figuring out what we want in a short-term relationship can make things even more difficult. Thankfully, some new survey data from a collab between the University of Gottingen and 68,000 users of female health app Clue might be able to help.
RELATED: Best Hookup Sites and Apps
First, it probably shouldn’t surprise anyone that the anonymous women surveyed admitted that size matters. Surprisingly however, there was a strong preference for an average-sized penis rather than a giant one. That should take a little bit of the edge off, at least.
Unsurprisingly (take a look around any major urban center these days), women are showing a notable interest in short hair paired with beards. Given the massive crush of 20-something and 30-something guys roaming the streets with tight fades and hipster beards, it looks like guys might have already picked up on this signal.
Being hairy all over isn't that desirable, though, with the 1970s-era Tom Selleck or Burt Reynolds chest seemingly well out of fashion in the survey results. One thing that hasn’t changed much over the years though — it’s best for men to be taller than your potential date — nearly 90% of women said they preferred their hookup partner to be taller than them.
Also, you might want to make sure to hit the gym if you want to be chosen for her next casual relationship. Only 10% of women said they preferred “a little extra” weight on their date, and that already discouraging number plummeted to a measly 1.6% of women who prefer a chubby suitor for something more casual.
Women from different countries have wildly different standards and expectations, too. French and Italian women like their lovers to be experienced, passionate, and physically attractive. Ladies from Spanish-speaking countries are all about kindness and compassion when it comes to having a little fun between the sheets, and British and American women are the least fussy overall.
With these bits of forbidden, sacred knowledge in mind, you may be better equipped to take on the jungle that is casual dating in the current year. Take a deep breath, a shot of apple cider vinegar, and get a full-priced salon haircut. The rest will apparently sort itself out, especially if you take some extra steps like shaving your chest.

        You Might Also Dig:
      
News Career & Money Dating Entertainment Food & Booze Health Home & Auto Style & Fashion Tech Black Friday Sex Sex Positions Sex Tips Sex Toys & Games Sexual Experiences Sexual Health Dating Dating Advice Dating Experiences Best Online Dating Sites Relationship Advice Grooming Fragrances Hair Shaving Skin Style Accessories Fashion Advice Fashion Trends Shopping Underwear Watches Fitness Health Mental Health Nutrition Weight Loss Workout Gear Hobby Home Tech Toys Travel Work Man Skills Auto Essential Home Random Survival Deals Health Deals Home Deals Style Deals Tech Deals Career & Money Career Money Productivity Self-Improvement Home & Auto Auto Home Parenting Pets Tools Gifting Anniversaries Birthdays Father's Day Holidays Mother's Day Valentine's Day Weddings Reviews Best Subscription Services Classes Meal Kits Products Food & Booze Booze Food Entertainment Celebs Guy Perspective Media Music Sports Travel TV & Film AskMen on Facebook AskMen on Twitter AskMen on Flipboard AskMen on Google News Top Stories 49 Unique Birthday Gifts for Him Best Back Exercises With Dumbbells Best Electric Shavers Best Free Dating Sites Best Sex Positions to Improve Your Sex Life The Best Sex Toys for Couples © 2019 Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AskMen, Become a Better Man, Big Shiny Things, Mantics and guyQ are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis Canada, Inc. and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. Media Kit Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement IGN PCMag Offers.com Geek ExtremeTech Toolbox SpeedTest
