
# Industrialist and son of Modinagar's founder, K K Modi passes away

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:41:00+00:00**

Author: **BS Web Team and Agencies**

Original: [Business-Standard](https://www.business-standard.com/article/current-affairs/industrialist-and-son-of-modinagar-s-founder-k-k-modi-passes-away-119110300167_1.html)

The scion of one of the oldest business families in the country - the Modi family - and the eldest son of late Rai Bahadur Gujarmal Modi (founder of the city of Modinagar), Krishan Kumar Modi passed away on Saturday. He was 79.
K K Modi served as the chairman of Modi Enterprises, which includes companies like Godfrey Phillips, Indofil Industries and Modicare. Modi Enterprises has interests in education, agriculture, tea and beverages among others. Modi was also a former president of FICCI. Modi led FICCI in 1997 and was also the president of Confederation of Asia-Pacific Chambers of Commerce and Industry from 2002 to 2006."He has left a void not only in the Indian industry, but also as a mentor to FICCI. His leadership and business acumen took Modi Enterprises to a $3 billion entity and epitomises success story of family-run businesses in India," FICCI President Sandip Somany said in a statement.
Modi's eldest son, Lalit Modi, is an Indian businessman. He was the first Chairman and Commissioner of the Indian Premier League (IPL), and ran the tournament for three years until 2010. Lalit Modi was the Vice President of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) during 2005–10.
