
# Premier League to discuss 'radical' VAR changes - including appeals for managers

Published at: **2019-11-04T21:20:06+00:00**

Author: **Liam Prenderville, http://www.facebook.com/mirrorfootball**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/premier-league-discuss-radical-var-20812159)

Premier League managers could be allowed to appeal a refereeing decision during a match amid a number of potential VAR changes.
A series of high-profile incidents have led to huge criticism of VAR after just a third of the season.
Everton's draw with Tottenham could well prove to be the watershed moment with a number of decisions not given despite lengthy delays.
Liverpool were also incorrectly denied a goal for Roberto Firmino by VAR in their win at Aston Villa.
Premier League clubs will meet next week with a "robust" discussion promised on the current failings of VAR, reports the Telegraph.
And among the possible 'radical' changes could be the introduction of a set number of appeals for managers, as in other sports.
It is believed the Premier League will strongly argue against the proposal but the increased scrutiny on VAR will continue.
There have been calls for the technology to be scrapped but there is not expected to be a vote on the suspension, instead a change in the guidelines.
No top-flight official has so far checked pitchside monitors after advice to use them "sparingly" in pre-season.
That could well change upon the next meeting of Premier League clubs, where bosses will be asked what other adaptations they would like to see.
Speaking after the Goodison Park draw, Sky Sports pundit Jamie Carragher admitted: "
