
# If Destiny 2’s Champion Modifiers Are Permanent, Something Needs To Change

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Paul Tassi**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/paultassi/2019/11/03/if-destiny-2s-champion-modifiers-are-permanent-something-needs-to-change/)

One surprise addition to Destiny 2 in the Shadowkeep era was the arrival of “champion” enemies, ones that have special abilities and are harder to kill that normal. Unstoppable champions cannot be staggered and will ruin your day. Barrier champions get shields and regen their health quickly. Overload champions…uh I’m actually still not quite sure what they do. But they hit hard. To counter this, Bungie introduced a new system tied to the seasonal artifact that gave certain types of weapons mods that could counter these enemies. Hand cannons can be anti-barrier or unstoppable, SMGs and autos can be anti-barrier or overload, bows can be anti-overload. So when you run activities with champions, namely Nightmare Hunts or Nightfalls, or if you see them out in the world, you need to have one or two of those weapons ready with those mods.
I actually like the core concept of this system. Champions are a way to spice up both old and new content and represent a true challenge. I’ve had 980 encounters where getting past a few champions was harder than killing any boss.
And yet the execution of this is…odd.
While Bungie constantly boasted about the new armor and weapon system as being able to “play your way,” in practice, these new champions and mods have felt more restrictive than ever.
You pretty much always have to have an auto or SMG on you with an anti-barrier mod on it (at higher difficulties it’s really hard for most hand cannons to outdamage the shield regen).
If unstoppable is a modifier you quite literally can only run a hand cannon or Leviathan’s Breath to counter it.
You are constantly dumping a massive amount of glimmer if you’re equipping and unequipping mods for activities. I eventually gave up and just left most anti-champion mods on my guns instead of using the mods I wanted because I was tired of changing them every other activity.
Exotics, which Bungie explicitly said they were trying to make more powerful compared to legendaries, are all but shelved in these activities because they cannot equip mods, and so they can’t be anti-anything, even if they’re the correct class type.
Overall there are just too few options. We are literally being limited to hand cannons, autos, SMGs, bows and like, two exotics with those intrinsic powers for an entire seasons in these activities. I assume next season we’ll see a change where it will then become pulses, sidearms, fusions and swords or something, but I think that’s just too restrictive.
I would echo an idea I’ve heard from the community where if these champions are here to stay (and I believe they are), that this system needs to change. Namely, I don’t think this part of the artifact should be mods at all, it should be something akin to a skill tree. If you branched into unstoppable hand cannon, it would give the unstoppable perk intrinsically to all hand cannons, without the use of a mod slot, exotics included. You have to pick whether its autos or SMGs that get anti-barrier or overload, unless you want to respec the tree. And so on.
This solves a lot of problems. It lets exotics get in on the fun without the need to give exotics a mod slot (I still understand how that could be a potential balance problem). It also frees up actual mod slots on those weapons for the mods you actually want to use, and we don’t have to do this equip/unequip dance every day. And if you add in a couple more weapon types to the season, even just one or two, I think that solves pretty much the entire collection of issues.
I do not mind being herded toward specific guns for the course of a season. I do mind when that gun pool is very tiny and doesn’t even include exotics in that category. Champions were a good idea, but anti-champion mods were not. A few changes, and we’ll get there.
