
# Godzilla Turns 65 And Indie Game ‘Terror Of Hemasaurus’ Is Born The Same Year

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Matt Paprocki**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattpaprocki/2019/11/04/godzilla-terror-of-hemasaurus/)

Sure, Terror of Hemasaurus looks comical. There’s a cartoon dinosaur romping through a city, munching in pixel citizens in an update (unofficially, of course) to the classic Rampage. But the title - that translates to Blood Lizard. If anyone was looking for a killer band name…
Following his work on Super Blood Hockey, solo dev Loren Lemcke kicked off development on Terror of Hemasaurus. It’s taken six months or so to reach this point, with a release date still set for 2019 on PC, coincidentally the same year Godzilla turns 65. “I have grown tired of waiting for new entries in the genre so I figured I would make my own interpretation of the monster-destroys-a-city game, which I am referring to as a ‘Smash ‘em up,’ writes Lemcke.
The last Rampage was a button mashing arcade game based on the recent movie. Terror of Hemasaurus returns to something more akin to the vintage series.
In Rampage, the monsters spawned from a lab accident akin to ‘50s era creature features, tinged with nuclear parables. Terror of Hemasaurus updates that theme for climate change. The dinosaur was frozen by future humans, released when the ice caps melt enough to bring order back to the world’s weather. That’s dark. “Sometimes things need to be torn down before they can be built up,” notes Lemcke. 
Lemcke is based in Finland, not a country known for its monster films. However, it’s allowed Lemcke specific freedom to explore indie development. “Access to affordable universal healthcare means I will never have to forgo my health because of excessive and prohibitive costs and insurance premiums, which is an unfortunate reality for many of my fellow game devs in the USA. A strong social safety net gives me comfort knowing that even in failure, I won’t be left on the streets to fend for myself,” writes Lemcke. 
Good thing too, because Hemasaurus seems awfully hungry for people in the streets.
