
# General election: When Boris Johnson aide said Tory MPs don't care about the NHS

Published at: **2019-11-01T14:50:52+00:00**

Author: **Dan Bloom, https://www.facebook.com/mirrordanbloom**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/general-election-boris-johnson-aide-20789033)

The NHS is shaping up to be one of the main battlegrounds of the general election .
Voters will go to the polls on December 12, just as the annual winter crisis is expected to snarl up the nation's hospitals.
And the health service has already played host to bitter spats, with Boris Johnson denying Jeremy Corbyn's claims he will open it up to US private firms.
So it's worth reminding ourselves what Boris Johnson's most powerful No10 advisor said about the NHS just two years ago.
Dominic Cummings gave a speech at a 2017 conference exposing his view of the government he's now tasked to run.
He said: "What is one of the core problems of the Tory party brand? NHS.
 
 
"People think - and by the way I think most people are right - 'The Tory party is run by people who basically don’t care about people like me'.
"That is what most people in the country have thought about the Tory party for decades.
"I know a lot of Tory MPs, and I am sad to say the public is basically correct."
As the crowd laughed, he continued: "Tory MPs largely do not care about these poorer people. They don’t care about the NHS.
"And the public kind of has cottoned on to that."
The video was unearthed earlier this year by The Guardian after Mr Cummings became the PM's most senior advisor in 10 Downing Street.
A friend of Dominic Cummings said back in July: "Dom was clear that he thinks the British public care most about leaving the EU and want more money for the NHS." Downing Street declined to comment at the time.
 
While he is not running the election campaign himself, he is a key figure in Boris Johnson's administration as the Tory leader takes Corbyn's criticism about the NHS head-on.
Boris Johnson dismissed claims the NHS could be exposed to US investment and said on Wednesday: "We will invest massively in that NHS and take it forward."
Yet Labour members chanted "not for sale! not for sale! not for sale!" the next day as Mr Corbyn accused Johnson of stitching up a US trade deal that would cost the NHS more money.
"Despite his denials, the NHS is up for grabs by US corporations in a one-sided Trump trade sell-out," Labour's leader declared.
Part of the fears are around US pharmaceutical firms and the prices they could charge the health service for vital drugs.
Mr Corbyn said this week: "The US has called for full market access to our NHS, which would mean prices of some of our most important medicines increasing by up to seven fold."
Donald Trump last night denied US firms would demand NHS access as part of a trade deal.
The US President told LBC: "It’s not for us to have anything to do with your healthcare system. No, we’re just talking about trade."
