
# Poor Metrics Leave $13.4B In Online Video Ad Revenue On Table, Report Says

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **David Bloom**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/dbloom/2019/11/03/poor-metrics-leave-134b-in-online-video-ad-revenue-on-table-report-says/?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=twitter)

Digital publishers and online creators are leaving an estimated $13 billion on the table that they might otherwise realize if the industry offered metrics that quelled concerns of advertisers, according to a new study by Vorhaus Advisors and Tubular Labs. Online video ad revenues worldwide are already at $8.2 billion, according to the report, called The $13B Missing Revenue for Digital Video Publishers. Those are prodigious numbers for an industry that was virtually non-existent a dozen years ago.
But as audiences for online video continue to expand – boosted by 5G mobile, international uptake of smartphones and the launch of more premium video services – the report suggests the potential online-video ad market could be far larger.
If the industry revenues indexed to a proportionate share of audience, the report estimates total revenues would be closer to $21.6 billion from “the three big platforms,” YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. That’s a gap of about $13.4 billion in unrealized revenues.
“Vorhaus Advisors believes there are substantial advertising revenues, around the world, that are not being realized by video creators and publishers, even though much effort and expenditure has been undertaken to build valuable digital audiences that advertisers are interested in,” the report reads. 
The report includes both ad-revenue shares and branded content income for both publishers and influencers.  And in terms of missed opportunities, the gap could mushroom, to more than $20 billion over the next three years, Vorhaus projects. 
The problem lies in part with advertisers, who continue to over-index spending with legacy media. But the report says advertisers aren’t fully to blame. The online-video industry still largely offers metrics that make it difficult for advertisers to understand and capture value in the digital video chain, said Mike Vorhaus, the Vorhaus Advisors founder and former head of Magid Advisors. 
“Our key finding is that social video on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube is worth $21 billion, but only $8 billion is currently being realized,” Vorhaus said.  “When you break down the mechanics of the global social-video business, the $13 billion gap is largely due to insufficient metrics for media and advertisers to transact on in social video.” 
The lack of a unifying standard makes it difficult to value online audiences against campaigns in traditional media channels, and fails to truly capture audience reach and depth, Vorhaus said. That undermines advertisers trying to make deals with publishers and creators that reach across the video platforms and into traditional channels as well. 
The model for estimating video income was developed by Tubular Labs, and Vorhaus Advisors said it was actually “conservative,” implying the potential for an even larger gap than the report suggests. Tubular, which tracks online video, is developing new kinds of metrics to improve the situation, said Tubular CEO Rob Gabel. 
“We’re committed to realizing the full potential of global social video,” said Gabel.
Earlier this year, Tubular was a founder of the Global Video Measurement Alliance, which recently launched an audience beta program with standardized time-based views across platforms, de-duplicated reach, total watch time, average watch time per unique viewer, audience demographics and location, and special reporting features.
Those time-based metrics are designed to give advertisers a more complete measurement of where audience eyeballs are directed, a crucial question in a distracted age.
Other GVMA members include Viacom, Discovery, Ellen Digital Network, Vice, Buzzfeed, Group Nine, Media Chain, Corus Entertainment, and Brut. 
Other kinds of media companies also are trying out new metrics solutions to better capture all the ways their content is being seen, on mobile, digital, connected TVs and more. 
Just this week, Nexstar announced that its broadcast station group, the nation’s largest, would shift from traditional ratings to a more comprehensive cost-per-impressions model, created in concert with comScore. The impressions approach is designed to capture all the views of shows, and ads, on distribution platforms beyond traditional linear broadcast experiences.
Nexstar and Nielsen also confirmed that they continue to work together on ratings and other measurements. Nielsen also issued a statement saying that impressions are an important part of ratings creation. 
