
# Army chiefs blame US drivers over death of Scots Black Watch officer in Iraq

Published at: **2019-11-07T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Stephen Stewart, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/stephen-stewart/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/held-army-chiefs-blame-drivers-20816826)

Army chiefs have revealed shocking details of the death of a Black Watch officer who was killed by a US forklift truck driver.
Captain Dean Sprouting, 46, was jogging at Al Asad air base in Iraq when he was crushed by the vehicle driven by Sergeant Steven Gray, a US National Guardsman.
The Defence Safety Authority’s probe into the horror incident revealed that two US soldiers failed to comply to their own safety procedures by driving on a moderately to highly used road with inadequate ability to see pedestrians.
Dad of two Capt Sprouting was also suffering from a perforated eardrum at the time which may have meant he was unaware of vehicles approaching behind him as we went on a training run on January 31 last year.
The news comes after an English coroner was told that British officers believed charges including gross negligence and manslaughter should have been lodged against driver Sgt Gray and a colleague who was with him.
The Defence Safety Authority report said: “Deviations from US standard operating procedures resulted in two vehicles with limited visibility proceeding on a moderately to highly used road, and part of a designated running route, with inadequate planned avoidance measures.
“The conduct of the movement of the container was a causal factor in the accident.”
 
Last month, it was revealed that a Brigadier General in the US had ruled that all charges against the two men should be dropped.
Neither of the US troops attended the inquest into the death of the married father of two, from Denny, Stirlingshire , despite being asked to.
Sgt Gray had been tailing Sergeant Joel Miller in an escort vehicle because the forklift had limited visibility.In a statement, Sgt Gray said he had seen a “blur of blue” as Capt Sprouting, in a blue top and shorts, briefly appeared in his line of vision.
The inquest heard how Sgt Gray had run to check on Capt Sprouting, who had no pulse.
The Americans said they had been travelling with hazard lights on at between 5mph-8mph.
In his statement Sgt Miller criticised Capt Sprouting’s decision to run along the road, calling it “the dumbest thing ever.”
British Army Major Ian Houston, who served alongside Capt Sprouting with the Black Watch, challenged that idea, telling the inquest it was “a sanctioned route.”
 
Capt Sprouting’s widow Linda, attended the inquest with his mother and step-father.
The new report said there were several contributing factors to the accident including Capt Sprouting’s perforated eardrum, his failure to declare it to medical authorities, the US driver operating without an assistant driver, the obscure view from the forklift truck, the inadequate safety plan to swerve to avoid obstructions or pedestrians, and Capt Sprouting’s decision to walk or run while not facing oncoming traffic.
The report added: “As with any accident involving a fatality, the outcome is a tragic loss for the affected families and for the Army of a valued officer. On behalf of the Defence Safety Authority, I offer my condolences to Capt Sprouting’s family, friends and loved ones.”
In October, Linda Sprouting said the British government had “rolled over” to please the US and that British service personnel were at risk when serving alongside US troops who did not have to answer for reckless behaviour.
Mrs Sprouting said: “We have had nothing from the Americans at all, no apology, nothing.”
After Harry Dunn, 19, was killed in Northamptonshire by a car said to have been driven by the wife of an American intelligence officer, who returned to the US claiming diplomatic immunity, Mrs Sprouting, from Denny, near Falkirk, said that British lives “obviously” did not matter to the US government.
She added: “This was highlighted in the Harry Dunn case and with Dean alongside it just highlights more flaws in their system. How can we be so close allies and yet this can happen?
“That it’s OK for them to kill a British citizen and it just be swept under the carpet?”
