
# Dirty Honey Talks About Their Unconventional Road To #1 As First Headlining Tour Gets Underway

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jim Ryan**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jimryan1/2019/11/05/dirty-honey-talks-about-their-unconventional-road-to-1-as-first-headlining-tour-gets-underway/)

Over the past year, 4-piece L.A. rock act Dirty Honey has proven there’s a different way to go about achieving music industry success.  On October 5, 2019, the group’s latest single “When I’m Gone” became the first song from an unsigned band to hit #1 in the entire 40 year existence of Billboard’s Mainstream Rock Songs chart.
The independent group remains without a label and has followed a shrewd path set forth by Red Light Management’s Mark DiDia.
“Everything from the very first showcase that our manager did was not for labels. It was for a booking agent,” explained Dirty Honey guitarist John Notto backstage at Chicago Theatre prior to a show October 10 opening for Alter Bridge and Skillet. “Rather than get us in front of a label, maybe before we’re ready, [the idea was] get us in front of some people that will see the live act and go, ‘I’m in!’ And that happened.”
In today’s streaming era, a great live act has become more important than ever and Dirty Honey has honed their own over the course of just about two years. There’s been festival appearances, prime opening slots and gigs in small clubs, all of which have provided the group with the opportunity to figure out how to connect with fans on stages big and small.
Following dates last weekend opening for Guns N’ Roses in Las Vegas, Dirty Honey launched their first ever headlining tour last night in Phoenix, one which resumes tonight at Sister Bar in Albuquerque, New Mexico and runs into December, with a handful of radio station concerts set for April 2020.
“That’s what we’re all in it to do is perform live,” said singer Marc Labelle. “We’re out here trying to prove ourselves. So I think there’s a little extra in it for us. Certainly, any tour we’ve been on, we’re definitely the ones that nobody knows. So we want to come out there and slap people in the face and make sure they leave knowing they saw Dirty Honey and had an experience that was good enough to make them want to see us again.”
“Simply put, what we’ve done, there’s just no better way to feel it out and learn how to do it the correct way then doing what we’ve done. And our manager has been very strategic about it,” said Notto. “We actually had the bigger festivals booked first. Then he booked us on a very rough, small tour where we were the first of three bands on in tiny, 200 capacity places that were undersold. And it was boot camp,” the guitarist continued. “We learned how to win those people over. We learned how to do it with no sleep. Hitting the road is the most instrumental part of what we’re doing.”
“It’s going to be good to take advantage of that knowledge now that we’re headlining,” added bassist Justin Smolian.
Without the benefit of the major label marketing machine to peddle their wares, Dirty Honey developed a fan base the old fashioned way - one by one thanks to the strength of their live act and strong word of mouth.
The group’s self-titled debut EP was released in March and in May Dirty Honey opened for The Who, adding festival appearances throughout the summer. “When I’m Gone” hit #1 seven months later as radio started to pick it up.
Gone are the days when a rock act had the luxury of developing their sound over the course of a decade and experimentation across several album releases. Dirty Honey needed a hit right away. Releasing an EP first allowed them to perfect a handful of their favorite songs without worrying about filler. 
Staying independent ensured the group would avoid major label meddling, which has paid dividends creatively and on the business side.
“We haven’t had anyone stepping in saying you should put this into your song or you should wear these clothes or your music video should look like this. We’ve had all the creative control,” said Smolian. 
“We had to figure out the financial struggle ourselves,” added Labelle. “There wasn’t a label that stepped in to give us a million dollars to make sure we could survive for three years or whatever.”
“There is no money,” drummer Corey Coverstone concurred in typically blunt fashion.
“That’s the struggle for bands is figuring out the finances early on so that you can get to a point in your writing where you’re writing stuff that’s really good,” Labelle continued. “You’ve got to survive through that to get to this point.” 
While streaming dividends right now are low, at the virtual advent of the still growing medium, staying independent allows the group to enjoy those profits in full, without splitting them with a label - a rare arrangement for an act with a #1 single that could wind up being a major asset down the line.
“Right now we retain 100% of our masters. So if we can keep the ship afloat, we’re not gonna rush to give that away if we can keep the momentum going without a label,” explained Notto, anticipating a scenario the band is likely to be faced with.
“Nobody really knows how to navigate these waters that we’re in now,” agreed Labelle. “So I’m not going to say we wouldn’t entertain an offer but we’ve done the heavy lifting. So for somebody to come in here now and offer a few hundred grand for your work, I don’t know if it’s worth it.”
With their debut EP out and a #1 hit under their belt, Dirty Honey has proven there’s a way to achieve success today in rock outside what’s left of the major label system. 
As they look to the future, in the midst of their first headlining tour, while the group is influenced by the legendary stars they’ve had the luxury of performing with, for now, they continue to eschew conventional rock wisdom, enjoying the unlikely success that’s brought.
“This wasn’t some brilliant or masterminded scheme from the beginning to be independent - because it’s been like, ‘No? Ok, we’ll make it work,’” said Notto. “We invited the box in, the box just said no every time. So our motive has always been, ‘Well, we’re keeping it going. So if you’re not going to do it, we’ll figure out how to pay for it later. Let’s just do it.’”
“Just watching Slash backstage and his passion. He’s done everything and seen everything and played every venue and this guy literally can’t put the guitar down. Whether it’s 2,000 or 50,000 in the stadium, he approaches it the same way. He’s really passionate about it,” observed Labelle. “It is historic,” he continued, noting the band’s recent chart placement. “But there’s still a lot of work to do.” 
*** Dirty Honey’s self-titled debut EP is available to stream or purchase HERE.
*** Dirty Honey is on tour now with performances November 9 in Denver, November 13 in Sacramento and more running through December 4 in Des Moines. For the full itinerary, click HERE.
