
# HomePod hits $200 and 10.2-inch iPad is $99 off, MacBook Pros on sale, more in today’s best deals

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:06:10+00:00**

Author: **Trevor Daugherty**

Original: [9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2019/11/07/homepod-ipad-deals/)

Early Black Friday deals highlight today’s 9to5Toys Lunch Break, including $99 off the latest 10.2-inch iPad and Apple’s HomePod drops to $200. You can also save upwards of $299 on the latest MacBook Pro and Nomad has notable early Black Friday offers. Hit the jump for all that and more.
This morning we got our first glimpse at Best Buy’s Black Friday ad. Now, you can cash in on some early deals including $99 off Apple’s 10.2-inch iPad and HomePod for $200. Both of which are new or matching the previous all-time low. We fully expect these deals to come back around during Black Friday, but you can cross them off your list now. Check out our entire coverage of Best Buy’s early doorbuster sale and Black Friday ad right here.
Amazon is now offering up to $299 off Apple’s latest MacBook Pro models, with the 13-inch variation starting at $1,100. Free shipping is available for all of these new Amazon all-time lows. Apple’s latest release features a redesigned keyboard, the usual Retina display, Touch Bar and Touch ID features, along with Thunderbolt 3 connectivity, and more. It’s an ideal upgrade from the MacBook Air if you need more power for content creation, photo editing, and various other intensive tasks on-the-go. Check out our hands-on review for more.
Nomad has launched its early Black Friday sale with 20% off sitewide. Our top pick is Nomad’s Base Station for $80 with the above code. That’s a 20% discount from the regular $100 price tag and a match of our previous mention. This model can charge two devices wirelessly, making it ideal for iPhone and the latest AirPods. You can upgrade to the Apple Watch-supported model for $112. You’d typically pay $140 here. With quality multi-device wireless charging options hard to come by these days, Nomad’s Base Station is a solid option. Learn more in our hands-on review.
Amazon is offering the August 3rd Generation Smart Lock in Dark Gray or Silver for $97. That’s $30 off what you’d spend at Home Depot, a $23 savings compared to Amazon’s typical pricing, and is among the best offers we’ve seen there. If you haven’t upgraded to a smart door lock yet, August is a nice-looking and inexpensive option worth considering. Since the August ecosystem is quite extensive, you’ll be able to pick up an August Connect at some point in the future to add remote locking along several integrations like Alexa, Assistant, Airbnb, and more.
Today, we have a massive sitewide Pad & Quill sale on Mac and iPhone accessories, among many other things. The company is among our favorite higher-end device accessory makers out there, offering gorgeous handmade craftsmanship, stellar 25-year warranties, and some of the best Apple gear accessories on the market. That’s on top of its collection of leather bags, cord organizers, linen journals, and much more. Check out the entire sale here for at least 15% off everything Pad & Quill offers.
