
# Report | Barcelona considering Kai Havertz as Ivan Rakitic replacement

Published at: **2019-11-06T12:20:04+00:00**

Author: **SportsCafe Desk**

Original: [SportsCafe](http://sportscafe.in/articles/football/2019/nov/06/report-barcelona-considering-kai-havertz-as-ivan-rakitic-replacement?utm_medium=rss)


        Barcelona are tracking Bayer Leverkusen’s Kai Havertz and will be watching him during the Bundesliga giants' clash against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League. The Catalans are evaluating options in the midfield with reports indicating that they're willing to sell Ivan Rakitic and Arturo Vidal.
      
According to English outlet ESPN’s latest report, Barcelona have been keeping a track on Bayer Leverkusen’s midfielder Kai Havertz. They have been scouting the German for quite a few months and will watch him again during the UEFA Champions League group D clash between Leverkusen and Atletico Madrid. However, Barca knows that Havertz will not come cheap as the German prodigy has been the subject of interest from a range of European sides. 
That has seen his price tag hit the stratosphere with reports indicating that Havertz would cost atleast €80 million or more.  Sources at the Catalan club insist that "there have not been any talks so far”. The plan to sign Havertz is in it's infancy and no substantial talks have taken place amongst Barcelona officials or between either club. There have been a number of clubs interested in the 20-year-old with Manchester United and Bayern Munich the two most eager to snap up the starlet. 
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is desperate to add creativity to their midfield and Havertz is one of the potential candidates. Apart from the Red Devils, Paris Saint-Germain, Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund have enquired about the youngster. Havertz made his first-team debut for the Bundesliga side in 2016 and has made 118 appearances for the club, scoring 31 goals. He scored 20 times in 42 matches last season becoming the first teenager to do so in Germany.
