
# Nolte: ABC News, Amy Robach Respond to Project Veritas Bombshell

Published at: **2019-11-05T17:31:56+00:00**

Author: **John Nolte**

Original: [Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/the-media/2019/11/05/nolte-abc-news-amy-robach-respond-to-project-veritas-bombshell/)

Here’s the full statement from ABC News:
Here is the pertinent part of Robach’s statement:
On Tuesday morning, O’Keefe released video of Good Morning America co-host Robach, on set, voicing her anger at ABC News for spiking her 2015 reporting on Epstein, the well-heeled Democrat donor who died mysteriously in prison after being arrested for various sexual crimes, including trafficking.
She says Epstein accuser Virginia Guiffre had the goods, and then some, including photographs. Robach names former President Bill Clinton, Alan Dershowitz, and Prince Andrew. All three deny any wrongdoing.
“I’ve had this interview with Virginia [Guiffre],” Robach says of the year 2015. “We would not put it on the air. I was told, ‘Who’s Jeffrey Epstein? No one knows who that is. This is a stupid story.’”
“I had it all three years ago,” she adds. “She had pictures. She had everything.”
Of Prince Andrew, she says ABC “quashed the story” out of the fear the Palace would not allow the network to interview “Kate and Will.”
“It was unbelievable what we had. We had Clinton. We had everything.”
Robach says Attorney Brad Edwards told her that “there will come a day when we will realize Jeffrey Epstein was the most prolific pedophile this country has ever known.”
In the video below, O’Keefe points out how far apart the candid video is from Robach’s ridiculous statement. He also promises more to come:
