
# Joe Swash fuels Stacey Solomon secret marriage rumours as he flashes gold ring

Published at: **2019-11-06T11:51:39+00:00**

Author: **Emmeline Saunders**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/joe-swash-fuels-stacey-solomon-20823534)

Joe Swash has added more fuel to the rumours he and Stacey Solomon secretly got married during their romantic family holiday to the Maldives - by flashing what seems to be a wedding ring.
The former I'm A Celebrity star was spotted on his way out of Dancing On Ice training in Essex, where he's been taking part in gruelling practice sessions with pro skater Alexandra Schauman.
Dad of two Joe, 37, grinned as he spotted the cameras, before raising up his left hand to flash the gold band sitting on his ring finger.
Joe kept tight-lipped as he left the ice-rink, dressed casually in a black tracksuit and matching cap.
It came after he, Stacey, her sons Zachary, 11, and Leighton, seven, plus their baby son Rex jetted out to the Maldives for a sun-drenched romantic trip.
While they were out there, Stacey shared a family picture of them all that sparked secret wedding rumours - because all the boys were wearing formal suits.
Her eldest sons were in crisp beige linen jackets with white ties shirts and ties, while baby Rex beamed in his little linen rompersuit and bow-tie.
Stacey and Joe were much more casually dressed, with Stacey in a flowing blue tunic dress and Joe in a matching cornflower blue shirt and beige shorts.
Fans were convinced the formal outfits were a nod to Joe and Stacey's wedding ceremony, congratulating the two on tying the knot.
But the couple have since revealed the truth behind the speculation.
Taking to Instagram yesterday, Stacey said: "Hey, we just need to clear up.
"Lots of people had messaged and commented to say they thought we got married. I'm only just reading through them all now and I'm like, 'Oh my god'."
"We didn't get married," Joe interjected.
Stacey then confirmed: "We wouldn't secretly get married anyway because I'd be so over the moon, I'd tell everyone.
"All our families would be there, my family and Joe's family."
Joe also cleared up the confusion about his ring, saying it definitely wasn't a hint at his marital status.
"The rings I'm wearing are from my dad, he passed away when I was a kid so I wear them for luck," he explained.
Stacey cheekily added that she had been expecting Joe to get down on bended knee considering what a romantic hotspot it is.
"Secret gutted myself, would've been a great place for a proposal."
Next time, Stacey!
