
# How Plymouth Argyle's three matches in November could shape the rest of their season

Published at: **2019-11-04T12:23:53+00:00**

Author: **Chris Errington**

Original: [PlymouthLive](https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/how-plymouth-argyles-three-matches-3499054)

As it stands, Plymouth Argyle have only three matches to play in November – but they could be pivotal to how the rest of the season shapes up for them.
The Pilgrims had their League Two game against Grimsby Town on Saturday postponed due to roof damage at Home Park after overnight gales.
That means their first match of the month will be the FA Cup round one tie away to Bolton Wanderers on Saturday.
Argyle have just two league games scheduled between now and the end of November, although if they lost to Bolton that could possibly increase to three.
There are no league fixtures on Saturday, November 30 because that weekend is set aside for the FA Cup second round.
However, if Argyle were beaten by Bolton and Grimsby lost at home to Newport County in round one then November 30 would be an obvious date for their postponed fixture to be played.
For now, the first of the Pilgrims’ two league games this month is away to leaders Forest Green Rovers on Saturday, November 16.
Argyle will then take on second-placed Bradford City at Home Park the following Saturday.
Given the respective league positions of the opposition, they are going to be particularly tough tests for the Pilgrims.
Here is the Plymouth Live guide to Argyle’s November matches:
With the redeveloped Mayflower Grandstand set to re-open next month, this season would be a very good time for Argyle to land a lucrative FA Cup third round tie in January.
With the Home Park capacity increasing to over 18,000, and excitement surrounding the new facilities in the grandstand, the visit of a top Premier League club would surely see demand for tickets hit an all-time high and be a huge boost for club finances.
However, a revitalised Bolton first stand in the way of Argyle having any hope of that.
Wanderers almost went out of business after their financial collapse and although they were eventually rescued out of administration they started the season with a 12-point deduction.
Phil Parkinson also quit as manager, to be replaced by former Argyle defender Keith Hill.
Bolton did not win any of their first 14 games in all competitions this season, but are now on a run of three consecutive victories.
First, they triumphed 2-0 at Bristol Rovers in League One on October 22.
Wanderers then won 3-1 at home to Manchester City Under-21s in the EFL Trophy before beating Fleetwood Town 2-1 in a league game at the University of Bolton Stadium on Saturday.
So Hill and his players – including former Argyle on-loan goalkeeper Remi Matthews – will be confident of securing a place in the FA Cup second round draw.
Argyle will be making their first-ever Football League visit to play Forest Green at the New Lawn.
Rovers are top of the table after winning their last two games, both of which have been away from home.
Forest Green beat Morecambe 2-0 on October 22 and then defeated Cheltenham Town 2-1 in a Gloucestershire derby on Saturday.
That leaves Mark Cooper’s side in pole position with a record of nine wins, four draws and three defeats.
They are one point clear of a trio of clubs – Bradford, Swindon Town and Crewe Alexandra.
The New Lawn, which has a capacity of around 5,000, is set to be packed for the visit of Argyle, who have already sold their allocation of 1,100 tickets.
Argyle slipped three positions to 13th in League Two after not playing on Saturday.
Pilgrims’ boss Ryan Lowe will be desperate for his side to put points on the board against Forest Green, but that will be no easy task.
Argyle’s only game at Home Park this month – again, as it stands – is against one of the clubs relegated from League One with them last season.
Bradford were in complete disarray during 2018/19 and finished bottom of the table.
However, manager Gary Bowyer has been able to turn things around at the West Yorkshire club this term.
The Bantams have won four of their last five league games, beating Exeter City 2-0 at Valley Parade on Saturday, to move up to second position in the table.

        Keep an eye out on our social media pages for more Argyle news - we are on Twitter  @HeraldPAFC  and on Facebook Plymouth Live - Argyle  
      

        You can follow Argyle reporter Chris Errington on Twitter @ChrisErrington1 and on Facebook HeraldChris
      

        Plymouth Live has launched a WhatsApp service dedicated to keeping you up to date with the latest Argyle news.  Click here to join  and follow the instructions on your phone.
      

        Your number will not be shared with anyone else in the group. If you want more information on signing up, or if this link does not work  click here.
      

         
      
Exeter had two players sent-off in that game, while Bradford had on-loan Peterborough United midfielder Callum Cooke red-carded for a second bookable offence.
Bradford have already had three away league wins this season and are sure to be going all-out for another one when they come to Plymouth.
Argyle have been strong at Home Park, though, picking up 15 points out of a possible 24, and they will want to make that advantage count.
