
# Best Buy’s ‘Black Friday 2019’ Ad Has The Best Nintendo Switch Deals So Far

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Erik Kain**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/erikkain/2019/11/07/best-buys-black-friday-2019-ad-has-the-best-nintendo-switch-deals-so-far/)

Best Buy’s huge Black Friday 2019 ad has found its way online and it includes a ton of savings on all things video games.The ad has a long list of Nintendo Switch games and accessories, as well as a bundle deal that’s the best we’ve seen so far for the Nintendo Switch console itself.
The Nintendo Switch bundle is one we’ve seen before in other Black Friday 2019 ads and, if I’m not mistaken, in 2018 ads as well. Nintendo doesn’t let its console go for cheap, though Best Buy is sweetening the deal compared to other retailers like Target.
This year, Best Buy will be selling the Nintendo Switch with Mario Kart 8 and a free screen protector for $299. That’s what a Nintendo Switch normally costs, but you get the game (normally $59.99) for free and the screen protector which is another ten bucks or so in savings. Note: Mario Kart 8 is also on sale at Best Buy this year which you’ll see in the deals below.
Best Buy also has various chargers, cases, docks and other Nintendo Switch accessories on sale. Here’s what they have in 2019:
Okay, now onto the video games. There’s quite a few on sale, and even though many will still cost you as much as $40, that’s actually not half bad for Nintendo games which rarely go on sale and take years and years to drop in price.
That’s all for Nintendo. Check back shortly for PS4, Xbox One and PC gaming deals at Best Buy this Black Friday.
