
# Holiday in the Wild – festive Netflix rom-com is stupid but charming

Published at: **2019-11-01T07:01:10+00:00**

Author: **Stuart Heritage**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/film/2019/nov/01/holiday-in-the-wild-netflix-kristin-davis)


        Kristin Davis and Rob Lowe fall in love while taking care of elephants in Zambia in a colossally silly yet oddly likable festive time-filler
      
When Netflix wants something, it stops at nothing to achieve it. It wanted an Emmy, so it made House of Cards. It wanted an Oscar, so it made Roma. And now it really, really wants you to spend your Christmas watching the fourth one from Sex and the City petting a baby elephant, because it has made Holiday in the Wild.
Yes, Christmas is still some way off, but it might be good for you to get ahead of this one. Every year, Netflix stakes a claim to out-Hallmark Hallmark when it comes to producing syrupy, formulaic, B-grade festive movies. In 2017 the big breakout hit was A Christmas Prince, last year it was the inexplicably fun Kurt-Russell-is-Santa-now romp The Christmas Chronicles. And while competition is tighter than ever this year – coming in the form of The Knight Before Christmas, animated movie Klaus and yet another Christmas Prince installment – you’d be a maniac to bet against Holiday in the Wild. Because Holiday in the Wild is a colossally, unstoppably silly film.
Name another film where Kristin Davis travels to Zambia and falls in love with Rob Lowe. Name another film where Rob Lowe plays a berserk cross between Indiana Jones and Michael Caine’s character from Jaws 4 who appears to have been preserved in a giant vat of Créme de la Mer. Name another breezy rom-com where – and there’s a chance I’m overthinking this, but bear with me – a mourning baby elephant who we first meet standing over its dead mother’s corpse acts as an allegory for the aftermath of divorce. You cannot, because only Holiday in the Wild has those things. Also it uses the song Send Me On My Way by Rusted Rocket to soundtrack a pivotal montage of gradual African acceptance, because of course it does.
