
# Here to stay, despite the odds

Published at: **2019-11-03T00:11:23+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/03/here-to-stay-despite-the-odds/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
EVEN if the government’s moratorium on the acceptance, processing and evaluation of applications for Philippine Economic Zone Authority (Peza) ecozones in Metro Manila brings uncertainty to the continued growth of the information technology-business process management (IT-BPM) sector, industry players have resolved to stay in the country, notably its capital city where they are mostly located, as well as keep tabs on provincial areas for future expansion.
This much was indicated by the IT and Business Process Association of the Philippines (Ibpap), despite President Duterte’s recent imposition of the NCR ban by virtue of Administrative Order (AO) 18, consistent with his 10-point socio-economic agenda, particularly the goal of promoting rural and value chain development.
“As one of the largest contributors to growing the new ‘middle class,’ the IT-BPM industry continues to positively impact the government’s goal to create more jobs both in Metro Manila and in ‘next wave and digital cities’ through further expansions in our existing operations and the promotion of new ones,” Ibpap president and chief executive officer Rey E. Untal told the BusinessMirror in an e-mail interview.
AO 18 has been generally welcomed by various stakeholders. The local outsourcing sector, though, has mixed sentiments toward this policy. Among the biggest worries is its perceived impact on future expansion.
“The IT-BPM industry does have a number of near- to medium-term challenges given the moratorium,” he said of their concern vis-à-vis the supply imbalance in the Metro Manila office property market.
OVER time, Metro Manila has been the country’s center of development whatever industry may be involved. Alongside this is the rise of economic zones or special areas for business and trade.
Tasked to oversee and administer such ecozones is the Peza, which was established through the Special Economic Zone Act of 1995 as the state’s arm to promote foreign investments in the country. Attached to the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), the agency has expanded through the years to also provide incentives at the locations that are controlled by developers and being occupied by operators of the IT-BPM sector, which covers call centers, shared service centers, software development and tech support facilities, among others.
Data from Peza show that the distribution of operating ecozones it accredited has been mainly concentrated in Metro Manila, with a lion’s share of 45 percent. Coming second is Cebu with just 12 percent, followed by Laguna with 5 percent.
As of April 2019, the number of enterprises or companies approved by the Peza to operate within the ecozones has reached  3,595. Since several firms have multiple initiatives, accredited projects have aggregated to 7,506.
Location-wise, Laguna has accounted for 26 percent of accredited projects, followed only by Metro Manila at 24 percent, and then Cavite with a hold of 20 percent. The IT service export business, where the IT-BPM belongs, has the most number of projects (88.6 percent) approved by Peza compared to various verticals in the National Capital Region (NCR), or Metro Manila.
Out of these initiatives, 73 percent are located in Metro Manila. From the 1,621 IT service export projects in the metropolis today, 36 percent are call centers, 27 percent are business-process outsourcing, and 19 percent are software development.
The phenomenal success of IT service export projects has been evident in the Metro since 2006, with an annual average of 115 new projects for the last 13 years. As of March 2019, 38 new projects have already been registered, or over 23 projects in the same period in 2018.
EXPERTS would agree that the effects of AO 18 would be felt only when Peza-approved office space runs out. But how soon would this be?
In Metro Manila, there are 166 IT ecozones, of which Makati City has the biggest share of 27 percent, followed by Quezon City at 21 percent, and then Pasig City at 14 percent.
According to the agency, more than 660,000 sq m or 46 percent of the 1.4 million sq m of Grade A office space due for completion from the third quarter of 2019 to end-2023 in Metro Manila have already been greenlighted by the Peza. But this is seen not to be the last stretch of the accredited office space supply in NCR.
“With a number of pending Peza proclamations for Metro Manila, available Peza-accredited IT space has gone down considerably, thereby risking insufficient supply to meet industry demand,” Untal said, while noting that the latest estimated inventory of only 126,940 sq m is shorter than the forecast yearly demand of 400,000 sq m to 450,000 sq m.
“This shortage in Peza-registered IT-BPM space in Metro Manila could result in a loss of as much as 40,000 to 50,000 potential new jobs in the industry and may further result in a significant increase in rental rates, thereby affecting the competitiveness of the Philippines for future expansions,” noted the Ibpap chief.
Cushman & Wakefield Philippines Research, Consulting & Advisory Services reported that Metro Manila commands an average monthly asking rate of P994 per sq m for Grade A office spaces as of third quarter this year. Lease values were already expected to grow further prior to the directive’s issuance. This may accelerate even more due to the order.
Another threat that AO 18 is seen to cause is the challenge in talent availability in the countryside. While some IT-BPM facilities have been successful in expanding to provinces, this is primarily driven by voice services.
“As the industry pivots to digital, talent availability for mid- to high-complexity work has predominantly been limited to Metro cities such as Manila and Cebu,” Untal said. “Moreover, Metro Manila still holds the highest ranking in global competitiveness reports among all Philippine cities, and thus attracts more investors and higher-value IT-BPM services.”
Proof of this is the second ranking of the country’s capital in the Global Top 100 Super Cities in the Tholons Services Globalization Index for 2019.
SINCE the moratorium’s effectivity, the above-cited concerns have emerged, not to mention that the certification of new special economic zones within Metro Manila has been frozen.
“Given these points, Ibpap is requesting to facilitate the proclamation of pending Peza-certified applications in Metro Manila with the Office of the President,” he appealed.
The IT-BPM industry, likewise, is supportive of the government’s effort to boost development in rural areas via the different agencies—Department of Information and Communications Technology, DTI, Department of Transportation, Department of Public Works and Highways, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority, and Peza—that have been tasked to hasten human capital and infrastructure development, as reinforced by the order.
In fact, the local outsourcing sector is one of the most aggressive in locating and expanding to previously untapped localities, enabling these areas to metamorphose into vibrant spokes and distributing the benefits of a thriving industry. Of late, well-developed hubs in Metro Manila have already created vibrant spokes in 25 provinces that have generated close to 300,000 jobs.
“With the continuing support of the government, the IT-BPM industry will continue to become a critical pillar in our country’s goal of generating employment for Filipinos and driving inclusive growth, especially in the countryside,” Untal said.
BECAUSE the future growth of the IT-BPM industry and stakeholders is at stake, AO 18 and other prevalent issues surrounding the industry and business environment will be tackled further in the upcoming International Innovation Summit 2019 on November 12. This year’s conclave focuses on three key areas, such as Country & Policy, Human Capital, and Deep Tech.
“Specific to Country & Policy, we have tracks on digital competitiveness and legislation that highlight how we can collaborate with the government in developing policies that are essential in building a stronger IT-BPM future,” said Untal.
Ibpap recently completed the review of its plan for the outsourcing sector to remain significant in the ever-changing business environment. The presently implemented blueprint that runs until the next three years targets a $40-billion industry by then, which translates to an annual revenue growth rate of 9 percent.
“We are also set to present the results and findings of the Roadmap 2022 recalibration, which will also be instrumental in developing the action plans needed to strengthen the Philippines’ position as one of the top investment destinations in the world for IT-BPM services,” the Ibpap chief stressed.
Image Credits: MINDAUGA DULINSKA | DREAMSTIME.COM
