
# Collins Dictionary Unveils Its Chosen 2019 ‘Word Of The Year’

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Yimin Huang**

Original: [Designtaxi](https://designtaxi.com/news/407258/Collins-Dictionary-Unveils-Its-Chosen-2019-Word-Of-The-Year/)

Collins Dictionary has picked its 2019’s term of the year, and it is none other than “climate strike” after it has been used for an estimated 100 times more this year than the previous. According to the BBC, the phrase was first recorded four years ago when students went to protest over global warming instead of attending their classes. It was then officially registered in November 2015 during the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris. The full definition of the term reads “a form of protest in which people absent themselves from education or work in order to join demonstrations demanding action to counter climate change” from Collins. This is the second time an environmental term has been chosen as “word of the year”, since the term “single-use” was picked in 2018. The Dictionary has also added “non-binary” as a specific term. Advertisement Advertisement The climate strike movement had a re-run this year after Swedish teenage activist Greta Thunberg held a sign saying “school strike for climate” in front of Sweden’s parliament. She also claimed she would not be going to school until Swedish politicians took action. Then, students around the world began skipping school to demand government action on climate change. In September, millions participated in a global climate strike. Previously, Collins Dictionary chose the term “fake news” as word of the year in 2017, and “Brexit” back in 2016.
