
# Weight loss: Is rice fattening? All you should know about this staple food

Published at: **2019-11-03T01:30:00+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/life-style/health-fitness/weight-loss/weight-loss-is-rice-fattening-all-you-should-know-about-this-staple-food/articleshow/71867127.cms)

Rice is one of the most popular and widely consumed staple foods across the world. But there are a lot of misconceptions related to rice intake like it makes you fat and increases the blood sugar levels. The first thing that comes to everyone's mind when they decide to lose weight is to cut down rice consumption. High in carbohydrates, rice is considered as one the worst foods to have when trying to shed kilos. But is rice really fattening? Let's bust this myth forever.
Parts of a whole grain All whole grains are made of three parts: Bran, Germ, and Endosperm.
Bran is a hard outer layer that protects the inner parts and is rich in fiber, minerals, and antioxidants. The germ is a nutrient-rich core, which contains carbs, fat, protein, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. The endosperm is the largest part of the grain and is entirely made of carbs with a small amount of protein.
Brown vs white rice nutrition value Brown rice Brown rice is intact with whole grain and contains both bran and germ. So it is more nutritious as compared to white rice and is rich in fiber and antioxidants. The nutritional value of rice is:
Calories: 130
Carbs: 29 grams
Fiber: 0 grams
Protein : 2 grams
Fat : 0 grams
Manganese : 19% RDI
Magnesium : 3% RDI
Phosphorus : 4% RDI
Vitamin B6 : 3% RDI
Selenium : 11% RDI
White rice Both bran and nutritious germ are removed from the white rice to improve the quality of the rice. So, we can say that all the nutritions are stripped away from white rice and it is entirely made of carbs in the form of starch. This factor makes brown rice a healthier choice than white rice.
Nutrition value Calories: 112
Carbs: 24 grams
Fiber: 2 grams
Protein: 2 grams
Fat: 1 gram
Manganese: 55% RDI
Magnesium: 11% RDI
Phosphorus: 8% RDI
Vitamin B6: 7% RDI
Selenium: 14% RDI
Rice and weight lossBy comparing the nutritional value of both the types of rice it becomes clear that brown rice is healthier than white rice. The fiber, nutrients and plant compound found in brown rice may increase the feeling of fullness and as a result, people eat fewer calories. It has been observed that eating brown rice is helpful in weight loss.
As far as white rice is concerned, the research conducted to study the link between the consumption of white rice and weight gain is quite confusing. Some studies show that a dietary pattern high in refined grains like white rice can lead to weight gain and obesity, while a few other studies have found no connection between the consumption of white rice and obesity. In fact, white rice was linked with weight loss. This indicates that both kinds of rice can be included in your weight loss plan.
Serving of riceWeight gain actually depends on the portion of food you consume. All the foods we consume is nutrition-rich and benefits us in some or the other way. But it is the quantity of food you consume that actually harms you.
There is enough evidence to prove that rice is not fattening at all. It all depends on the quantity of rice you consume in a day.
Numerous studies have shown that serving food in a larger quantities or big container increases the intake, regardless of the type of food being served.
In order to decrease the intake of rice, serve it in a small bowl. Rice can be both fattening and weight loss friendly, it all depends on the serving size.
