
# Swans rescued from canal after oil spill in Walsall spreads miles

Published at: **2019-11-05T09:37:50+00:00**

Author: **Oprah Flash, https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/authors/oprah-flash/**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/black-country/swans-rescued-canal-after-oil-17199850)

A large stretch of the Wyre and Essington Canal in Walsall has been contaminated by oil.
Three swans have had to be rescued from the greasy sludge as environmental charities desperately try to clear the waste.
The clear up began last week (October 29), but the thinly spread oil is proving a challenge to remove from the waterways.
Covering a vast nearly two miles of the canal, the oil spill has spread between Sneyd in Walsall up to the Birchills Junction .
Canal & River Trust West Midlands has teamed up with the Environmental Agency and RSPCA in a bid to protect as much of the surrounding wildlife as possible.
A spokeswoman for Canal & River Trust West Midlands said: "We were alerted to the oil spill on the Wyrley & Essington Canal in Walsall by a member of the public last Tuesday (October 29).
"Since we have been trying to mop up the spill using special absorbent pads. These pad are placed on top of the oil and are designed to absorb the oil like a sponge. The problem we’re having is the oil is spread thinly proving hard for us to contain and, being so thinly spread, the oil isn’t being easily absorbed by the pads.
"The oil spill now covers around 3km of canal from Sneyd in Walsall to Birchills Junction – the point the Wyrley & Essington Canal meet the Walsall Canal.
"We have been in close liaison with the Environment Agency to try and work out where the oil may have come from – it may have been dumped in the canal or entered through our drainage system.
"We’ve also been working with the RSPCA and so far three swans have been rescued from the oil spill. We are hoping the oil will soon start to naturally break down and disperse in the water."
Canal & Trust West Midlands stressed the importance of not "dump stuff down the drain and instead dispose of it responsibly".
The spokeswoman added: "It can end up polluting our waterways, harming wildlife and damaging the local ecosystem. It can also be costly to clean up."
Known locally as the "Curly Wryley" the canal runs through the edge of the Black Country from Wolverhampton, through Walsall up to the Huddlesford Junction near Lichfield.
In Walsall, last month a whopping 60 tonnes of canal weed had to be removed from the Waterfront after five people fell into the canal basin.
The thick layers of canal weed had tricked several members of the public into thinking it was grass and sent them tumbling into the murky waters, near the Crown Wharf Shopping Park.
A 19-year-old fell in on Friday, October 4, following a trip to Nandos with a group of friends at around 7.30pm.
Less than an hour later, Steve Worthington and his 11-year-old son suffered the same fate and stepped straight into the canal.
On the same night, a romantic date at TGI Fridays was almost ruined when a 35-year-old woman also ended up submerged in the weed-ridden depths.
It took two days and the help of local volunteers to help clear the troublesome weeds.
Keep up-to-date with all things Wolverhampton on our  Wolverhampton Facebook page  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.
Keep up-to-date with all things bostin' in the Black Country on our  We Love The Black Country Facebook group  - where you'll get the latest news, travel, weather and events in your area.
