
# Jilted lover murdered student, 22, who didn't want serious relationship with him

Published at: **2019-11-04T13:08:48+00:00**

Author: **Lorraine King**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/us-news/jilted-lover-murdered-student-22-20808456)

A jilted lover has been found guilty of murdering a nursing student he was casually seeing because she didn't want to have a serious relationship with him.
Orlando Tercero, 23, strangled 22-year-old Haley Anderson at his apartment in Binghamton, US, on March 8 last year.
The court heard the pair were in an "on-and-off" relationship but when Tercero said he wanted things to be serious between them Ms Anderson said no, the Binghamton Press & Sun Bulletin reports.
After the murder Tercero fled to his homeland Nicaragua but the government refused to extradite him back to the US so his trial took place there.
The trial was watched by Ms Anderson's family, friends and the US media via a video live stream.
 
Witnesses in the US also used the livestream to give evidence.
The court heard from 17 witnesses who said Tercero killed Ms Anderson because he was jealous that she had reconnected with an ex-boyfriend.
He then left her body partly tucked in to his bed at the apartment.
After the murder Tercero carried out a botch suicide attempt and checked himself into a psychiatric hospital after arriving in Nicaragua claiming he was suffering from epileptic seizures.
 
However a doctor said Tercero's mental state was fine and he was not receiving any treatment or medicine for psychiatric issues.
Tercero's lawyers tried to argue that his actions may have been provoked.
He was convicted on Friday and will be sentenced at a later date following negotiations between Nicaraguan and US authorities. He is facing 30 years in jail.
Ms Anderson's parents Karen and Gordon said they want to see Tercero face the maximum penalty.
 
Speaking directly to their daughter's murderer, Karen said: "I hope that the demons that are inside you that enabled you to commit such a heinous crime are able to get fixed.
"Because of you, my daughter will never be able to fill her life to the potential that she had.
"She will never get to see the age of 49 or 50 or beyond."
Gordon added: "I want to leave you with this. I saw an endearing photo of you and your mother hugging each other.
"My heart breaks for her, it truly does.
"Because you stole from your own mother. And, even though she has unconditional love for you, every time she hugs you she will get a glimpse of that monster within you and she'll know that one day you might get out."
Broome County District Attorney Steve Cornwell in Binghamton said he was "satisfied" with the verdict.
He added: "We saw something that we haven't seen before, but we saw two governments working together, law enforcement agencies working together.
"Although not what we wanted, we wanted to have the trial here, but we saw justice take place in a courtroom on an international stage."
 
Paying tribute to their daughter Mr and Mrs Anderson described her as "beautiful, intelligent and friendly" and "a beacon and a lighthouse".
Tercreo, who refused to speak to the Andersons in court, will be arrested and tried for second-degree murder charge in Broome County if he enters the US again.
