
# Ex-boxing champ Scott Harrison announces birth of fifth child

Published at: **2019-11-05T18:19:21+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/ex-boxing-champ-scott-harrison-20818480)

Boxer Scott Harrison is celebrating the birth of his fifth child.
The former world champion took to social media to share the news that his partner Stacey gave birth to a baby girl on Monday.
On Twitter Scott , 42, shared an adorable snap kissing his new arrival's head in the hospital ward.
 
He wrote: "“My wee princess born today 8lb 14oz.
“We love you - welcome to the world!!xx”
Last October we told how his partner Stacey suffered a devastating miscarriage.
 
Scott, Stacey along with their three sons and one daughter spoke of their agony and how 'cruel life can be'.
At the time, Scott posted on Twitter: "I’m saddened to inform you that my beautiful missus Stacey has had a miscarriage. We are absolutely devastated. Life can be cruel at times.
“Did not want to write this on social media but a lot of people still congratulating me and Stacey on the baby.”
 
Stacey and Scott’s four children suffered the agony of him being in jail for three years.
He served the first part of his sentence in Spain after being found guilty of an assault in the nightclub there in 2012.
The couple had planned to wed in 2015 but that had to be cancelled when Scott was extradited to Spain.
Scott, who won two world titles and staged 12 defences before he was stripped of his belt, has vowed to get back to the top of the sport.
