
# Teen girl dragged from car by her hair during violent Coatbridge carjacking

Published at: **2019-11-04T16:51:49+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Bargh**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/teen-girl-dragged-car-by-20810683)

A 15-year-old girl was dragged out of a car "by her hair" on Sunday morning during a carjacking in Glenmavis.
The teenager was sitting in the passenger seat of a Volkswagon Touran at around 9.30am before she was forcibly dragged from the vehicle by a woman who then got into the car with a man and drove off.
Thankfully, the girl wasn't hurt.
Police are now appealing to the driver of a silver car who picked up three people in North Lanarkshire that Sunday, in the hope that he or she might have information about the robbery.
Cops are hunting for a white 5'5 female around 30-years-old, of slim build with long blonde hair that was tied up in a ponytail.
She was wearing grey jogging bottoms and an oversized sweatshirt.
They also want to find a man of roughly the same age, who is 5'11 in height, of medium build with short brown hair.
He was wearing navy blue jogging bottoms and a navy blue rain jacket.

        Click here for more from Airdrie and Coatbridge
      
The mother of the daughter who was pulled from the car posted on Facebook: "They grabbed my daughter by the hair and dragged her out the car.
"She’s okay but we are both really shaken.
"We are totally overwhelmed by the messages of support."
Detective Inspector Cammy Miller, Coatbridge CID, is leading the enquiry. He said:
“What we know from our enquiries so far is that three people, two women and a man, were seen getting into a silver van in Condorrat Road, between Condorrat and Glenmavis village, and then being dropped off a short time later - between 9.15 and 9.30 am on Sunday morning - in Coatbridge Road where the car was stolen.
“Although at this time we cannot confirm if these people were involved, it would be beneficial if the driver of the van, or indeed his/her passengers, got in touch with police.
“Information can be passed to Coatbridge CID via 101. Please quote reference number 1459 of 3 November 2019 when calling. Alternatively, Crimestoppers can be contacted anonymously on 0800 555 111.”
