
# Android Circuit: New Galaxy S11 Leaks, Google Power Inside Honor 9X, Razer Fights AirPods

Published at: **2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Ewan Spence**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ewanspence/2019/11/01/android-google-news-headlines-samsung-galaxy-s11-leak-rumor-nokia7-honor9x-pixel4-moto-razer/)

Taking a look back at seven days of news and headlines across the world of Android, this week’s Android Circuit includes new Galaxy S11 details, another Galaxy Fold design, the Nokia 7.2 reviewed, Honor 9X and Google’s Mobile Services, the new Moto Razr leaks, Pixel 4 battery problems, Alphabet’s purchase of FitBit, new Razer earbuds, and increased support for Primephonic.Android Circuit is here to remind you of a few of the many things that have happened around Android in the last week (and you can find the weekly Apple news digest here).

        Galaxy S11 Camera Software Exposed?
      
We already know that Samsung is planning a larger screen for next year’s flagship Galaxy S11 handsets. Now, looking at the beta of the One UI code, it look like low light and nightie photography will also play a key part. The camera software is preparing for devices with high ISO values and extra-long shutter durations, as I reported earlier this week:
More here on Forbes.

        Another Way To Fold Your Galaxy
      
Meanwhile Samsung took time out at its recent Developers Conference to show off some new form factors of its smartphones, revealing a new design of folding phone. Unlike the now launch Galaxy Fold’s book spine approach, this demo showed a fold based around the flip-phone form factor. Ilse Jurrien reports:
More at Lets Go Digital.

        Nokia 7.2 Pitches Itself As An All-Rounder
      
HMD Global’s Nokia 7.2 handset is fighting in a particularly crowded mid-range market of smartphones in the run up to the holidays, and like every handset it has made choices on where to be a champion, where to compromise, or i it would look to be an all-rounder. For the team at GSM Arena, the 7.2 has chosen the latter approach and he’s not sure it has worked out.
More at GSM Arena.

        Honor 9X And Google Mobile Services
      
Following last week’s launch of the Honor 9X, a number of eyebrows were raised that the handset was running Google’s flavor of Android. With Honor’s parent company Huawei listed on the US Entities list, how can Google Mobile Services (GMS) be included? Robert Triggs explains:
More at Android Authority.

        Folding Over The Moto Razr Leaks
      
Following on from the first images of the Folding Moto Razr smartphone, the geekerati have had a closer look at the handset thanks to a treasure trove of images found online. Ben Schoon examines the leaked details to see what Motorola has planed:
More at 9to5Google.

        Pixel 4 Problems
      
Following the launch of Google’s Pixel 4 and Pixel 4XL, the handsets have not been given an easy ride from the critics. From issues with white balance, through awkward notifications, to gimmicky gestures, Mountain View’s handset is not quite matching up to the competition. Then there’s the battery life. Mark Spoonauer reports:
More at Tom’s Guide.

        Why The Fitbit May Not Be A Success With Google 
      
Alphabet, Google’s parent company, has purchased Fitbit to help with its stalled strategy around wearables. Dieter Bohn looks at the potential from the addition to the Android champions:
More at The Verge.

        New Razer Ear Buds Support Mobile Gaming
      
This week saw gaming lifestyle brand Razer launch its Hammerhead headphones for smartphone gamers. The buds sit in your ear much like the standard AirPods from Apple (and are the obvious comparison to make) but the big selling point is ‘game mode’, which reduces the latency down to 60 ms to sync with the action on screen. Cameron Faulkner reports:
More at The Verge.

        And Finally…
      
Classical music streaming service Primephonic has added compatibility for Sonos and Chromecast users  into the mobile app, which opens up the ‘multi room’ experience for users. Full details on connecting to Chromecast can be found here.
Android Circuit rounds up the news from the Android world every weekend here on Forbes. Don’t forget to follow me so you don’t miss any coverage in the future, and of course read the sister column in Apple Loop! Last week’s Android Circuit can be found here, and if you have any news and links you’d like to see featured in Android Circuit, get in touch!
