
# Solange and husband Alan Ferguson split after five years of marriage

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:06:25+00:00**

Author: **Bashiera Parker (@bparks_)**

Original: [Channel24](https://www.channel24.co.za/Gossip/News/solange-and-husband-alan-ferguson-split-after-five-years-of-marriage-20191104)

Cape Town – Solange Knowles revealed on Friday that after five years of marriage she'd split from husband and director, Alan Ferguson.
Taking to Instagram, the Cranes In The Sky singer wrote, "11 years ago I met a phenomenal man who changed every existence of my life. Early this year we separated and parted ways, (and tho it ain't nan nobody business) I find it necessary to protect the sacredness of my personal truth and to live in it fully just as I have before and will continue to do."

        SEE THE POST HERE:
      
After years of dating, Solange and Alan tied the knot on 16 November 2014. Guests, including her big sister Beyoncé, Jay-Z and Blue Ivy, were all in attendance at the all white wedding. Vogue shared the pictures exclusively of the beautiful day.
In her post, Solange also shared that her "body" left her "with no choice", which many followers assumed was a confession to rumours she'd been unfaithful with her former manager John Bogaard.
According to Buzzfeed, in a thread of since-deleted tweets, she responded to the accusations writing, "Yo, John [Bogaard] is my former co-manager y'all gotta chill. I'm not about to be silenced into letting complete lies narrate my life. To take my words 'my body left me with no choice but to listen and be still' after speaking about my health journey…which has already been painful enough and turn [it] into an interpretation of unfaithfulness is just…wow.
"I hate to even give this energy, but I will not let something so untrue follow me when I've tried to lead my life in truth. I hope y'all spread this with the same conviction and energy that [you] did that false narrative. Much love."    
