
# Strictly stars 'living in fear' after Mike Bushell death threats as TV execs act

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:42:09+00:00**

Author: **Sam Elliott, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/sam-elliott/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/strictly-stars-living-fear-after-20800700)

BBC bosses have offered celebrities round-the-clock support after vile trolls sent Mike Bushell horrifying death threats.
Stars are said to be very concerned by last week's revelations that the BBC Breakfast host was told to quit Strictly Come Dancing - or be a “dead man”.
Mike says he is not giving in but telly execs are taking no chances.
The chilling messages stopped them in their tracks - and the show's worried stars are now being given extra protection, report the Daily Star .
Mike, 53, said: "We haven't reported it to police because the tweet had already gone. The BBC have been great, really supportive. They offered offered me support immediately. They are brilliant.
"There were others saying 'f*** off, you've got to pull out of the competition', but you don't quit.
"I'm fine. As you get older you get thick skinned. I'll just come out fighting harder this week.
"I totally have time for people that say the judges made the wrong decision. Everyone has their own opinion don't they?"
Concerned Kayta Jones has shut down her social media after her celebrity dance partner was targetted.
Katya is so angry about about what has been said to the presenter that she is no longer using twitter or Instagram .
He received the threat hours after Strictly Come Dancing judge Shirley Ballas saved him over ex-Coronation Street Catherine Tyldesley in last Saturday's dance-off.
Now, according to The Sun , Katya is quitting social media.
The dancer, 30, said: “I’m off social media; it’s not real. For me, it’s real what we’re doing with our dancing and performance.
“There’s no need for negatives. I just want to do my own thing.”
Speaking at the Daily Mirror's Pride of Britain Awards, Mike, said: "It said that unless I withdraw from the competition now I'm a dead man.
"It was personal and I thought WTF. There are bigger things in the world to worry about.
"I get that people have their own favourite dancers but it's an entertainment show at the end of the day and to get a death threat is ridiculous.
"My wife saw it first and when I went to see who had sent it, they had already removed the tweet. A death threat? What?! On Strictly?
"You rise above it but it's people being cowardly isn't it? The show is meant to be happy, make people feel happy."
