
# Zidane Sets Record Straight On Bale Saga

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:31:00+00:00**

Author: **Kurt Buckerfield**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/real-madrid/gareth-zidane-sets-record-straight-on-gareth-bale-saga/666859)

With many rumours surrounding the relationship between Gareth Bale and Real Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane, the French boss now appears to have set the record straight on the ongoing saga.

        
          Real Madrid Transfer News: Five Out, Five In?
        
      
Reports in recent weeks suggested that the Welshman could be sold in the January transfer window, with Los Blancos and Zidane said to be frustrated with the 30-year-old's fitness issues and general attitude.
The 47-year-old boss, however, has once again rubbished the speculation, insisting he does not want to see the former Tottenham Hotspur star to leave the Santiago Bernabeu come the turn of the year.
"I want Gareth to stay here until the end of the season," he said, according to Marca. 
"People keep saying that I want him to leave in January, it's nonsense. Our fans have to think positively, as the player wants to be with us.
"He has returned here and wants to recover, but he simply hasn't recovered yet."

        
          Choose the right midfielder for SA's Real Madrid Dream Team & win a replica shirt!
        
      
Zidane went on to say he has a cordial working relationship with Bale, whom he believes always has the team's best interests at heart.
"We have a good relationship and say 'good day' every day, and I truly love all my players," he continued.
"Nothing has ever happened with Bale, even in the summer when he was going to go.
"You (the media) need to stop always saying the same thing or asking me about him leaving matches early, because I used to do the same.
"There are closer relationships with certain players, but the important thing is that he was with the team before the match and at half-time to support them.
"You look for things that aren't there. He wants to see the team win, I have no doubts about that."

        
          Pique Names Four Real Players He Gets Along With
        
      
Bale has scored two goals and assisted a further two strikes in seven games for Los Blancos so far this season.
