
# Everton confirm severity of Andre Gomes injury with Portuguese to undergo surgery on Monday

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:53:07+00:00**

Author: **Alex Smith**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/breaking-everton-confirm-severity-andre-20805235)

Andre Gomes will undergo surgery on Monday after he suffered a fracture dislocation to his right ankle.
Everton midfielder Gomes suffered the sickening injury during the Toffees' 1-1 draw with Tottenham on Sunday.
The Portugal international was tackled by Son Heung-min, who was sent off, before landing awkwardly and falling into Serge Aurier.
Gomes was treated on the pitch before he was taken on a stretcher to an ambulance and was immediately rushed to hospital.
Everton wrote in a statement: "Everton Football Club can confirm Andre Gomes will undergo surgery tomorrow (Monday, November 4) after sustaining an ankle injury in today’s game with Tottenham Hotspur.
"The Portugal international was stretchered from the pitch during the second half of the game and taken straight to Aintree Hospital by ambulance accompanied by members of the Everton medical team. After undergoing hospital tests, it was confirmed he had suffered a fracture dislocation to his right ankle.
"The Club will provide further updates in due course."
The injury overshadowed the game in which Toffees substitute Cenk Tosun equalised following Dele Alli's first away league goal since January in the eight of 12 minutes of added on time.
"Everybody is sad inside. Some players, they nearly cried," said Tosun, who had been on the pitch just 10 minutes.
 
"He was in shock, his eyes were open so big. He was like crying, shouting and screaming.
"I just tried to hold him and speak to him. I tried to tell him to stay calm. We couldn't understand him."
Everton boss Marco Silva praised his players for their response to the sickening setback.
"It was a really tough moment for us, forgetting the game and the result, with what has happened with Andre," he said.
"Our players now, they are sad, a tough moment for us in our dressing room and for Andre, but the spirit we showed after that moment on the pitch I think is a good answer for you.
"What I can tell you is he will have all the support he needs from ourselves.
"He is seriously injured but I am 100 per cent sure Andre will become stronger as a football player and as a man, because he is a fantastic lad, a fantastic professional.
"And I have to be fair: of course it was a strong tackle but I am 100 per cent sure Son didn't do it with the intention to do something bad to Andre."
