
# Teams That Could Make Sense For Cam Newton In 2020 Trade

Published at: **2019-11-07T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Bill Williamson**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/billwilliamson/2019/11/06/teams-that-could-make-sense-for-cam-newton-in-2020-trade/)

The 2019 NFL season has been known, thus far, as the season of the backup quarterback. Fittingly, the 2020 NFL offseason may be remembered as the availability of starting quarterbacks. There could be an unusually large amount of available quarterbacks next offseason. One of the biggest names available could end up being Cam Newton. The possibility became closer to a reality this week when the Carolina Panthers put Newton on the injured reserve with a foot injury that has cost him the past six games.
There is rampant speculation in North Carolina and nationally that Newton likely has played his final game as a Panther and the team will likely decide to move forward with his injury replacement, Kyle Allen, and end up trading Newton in the offseason. Trade talks can commence after the season, but won’t be able to be finalized until the 2020 league year begins in March.
 The Panthers will save more than $19 million and only be penalized $2 million in salary-cap room if they shed Newton from the roster. With Allen developing, running back Christian McCaffrey playing at an MVP level and needs on defense, it may behoove the Panthers to move on from Newton, who will turn 31 next May.
 If Newton becomes available, there will likely be a robust trade market for Carolina. At $18.6 million (next season is the final year of his contract) and with his success and experience, Newton would be a solid answer for several teams. Here is a list of teams that could be trade partners with Carolina for Newton after the season, presented in alphabetical order:
Chicago: The Bears are already being mentioned by many national pundits as the team that should most consider trading for Newton. However, the Bears don’t have a first-round pick (with a lot of teams likely in pursuit, the compensation could be fairly high) and are tight against the cap. It may not be easy for the Bears to make this deal.
Cincinnati: The Bengals benched Andy Dalton, who was drafted in the second round of the 2011 draft in which Newton was the No. 1 overall pick, and will start rookie Ryan Finley this week. If he finishes promisingly, the Bengals will likely go with him next year. But the Bengals to have the cap room to fit Newton. They are on pace for a top pick and it is doubtful the Bengals would trade that for a quarterback in his 30s who’s coming off an injury.
Denver: The Broncos’ last shining moment was beating Newton, when he was the NFL MVP, to win the Super Bowl in 2016. The Joe Flacco trade was a flop. Denver will likely be looking for a quarterback again next offseason. A John Elway pursuit of Newton makes a lot of sense. 
Los Angeles Chargers: Philip Rivers, who turns 38 next month, is a free agent after this season. If he and the Chargers part ways, adding Newton would make sense. Newton would bring star power to a franchise that need a boost moving into a shiny new L.A. stadium next season as the second banana to the Rams.
Miami: The Dolphins will likely draft a quarterback with a top pick. But adding to other areas with their huge crop of draft picks and quickly building around Newton may make sense in South Beach.
New England: ESPN has speculated Tom Brady may move on after this season If that happens, Bill Belichick could do worse than add a talent like Newton as his Brady replacement.
Pittsburgh: If Ben Roethlisberger is unable to come back from his injury, the Steelers could be interested in Newton if they don’t think Mason Rudolph will be ready to be a starter.
Tennessee: This one may make a lot of sense. The Titans will likely fully move on from Marcus Mariota in the offseason. They have the cap room to fit Newton. He would likely enjoy staying in the South. This looks like a good fit.
 
