
# Nemanja Matic 'pondering January transfer' away from Man Utd amid Euro 2020 fears

Published at: **2019-11-06T21:02:59+00:00**

Author: **Alex Milne**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/nemanja-matic-pondering-january-transfer-20828289)

Manchester United midfielder Nemanja Matic is reportedly open to a move away from the club in January as he is worried his lack of playing time may lead to him being excluded from the Serbian squad.
Matic has made just three appearances in the Premier League so far this season, with the likes of Scott McTominay and Fred getting the nod ahead of the 31-year-old.
And with Paul Pogba also set to come back into the team when he recovers from injury, first-team opportunities are looking less and less likely for Matic.
Serbia look likely to qualify for next summer's Euro 2020 tournament, and with Matic approaching the twilight of his career he may see this as one of his last opportunities to represent his country in a major tournament.
According to Manchester Evening News United will be willing to let Matic go in January as long as they can find a replacement, and with his contract set to expire at the end of the season they are likely to be willing to cash in on the player while they can.
Matic was a key part of the United team when he first moved from Chelsea in 2017, and made 49 appearances in all competitions in the 2017-2018 season and 38 last season.
However, he expressed his concern during pre-season that United may not have enough experience to compete at the highest level this season.
Speaking in July, Matic said: "Quality and experience brings you the title. In this squad we have quality and no experience. We have five or six top players, but they are still young, like Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial. They have shown their quality on the pitch but they are too young to lead the team of course.
"Mason Greenwood, great potential. United have a project and know what they want with players of the future. But you need to give them time because, at 17, you cannot play the same like you are 26 or 27."
