
# Ramaphosa: Siya Kolisi's captaincy is the 'power of a dream fulfilled'

Published at: **2019-11-04T08:21:00+00:00**

Author: **Riaan Grobler**

Original: [News24](https://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/ramaphosa-siya-kolisis-captaincy-is-the-power-of-a-dream-fulfilled-20191104)

President Cyril Ramaphosa has said the sight of Springbok captain Siyamthanda Kolisi lifting the cup at the Yokohama Stadium in Japan on Saturday filled him with great pride.
The Springboks clinched a convincing 32-12 victory against England in the Rugby World Cup final - the third such victory for the national side, who were crowned champions in 1995 and 2007.
"I could see the undisguised emotion on the face of his father, Fezakele Raymond Kolisi, watching from the stands. There was his son, the first black captain of the Springboks, making history," Ramaphosa wrote in his weekly newsletter.

        OPINION | 
        
          Adriaan Basson: The rainbow nation reloaded – let's not mess it up again
        
      
Each week, Ramaphosa gets to grips with issues and challenges which the country faces, by discussing them in his new weekly letter, titled From the Desk of the President.
"Siya Kolisi was born on a day of profound significance in our country, June 16, when we remember the valiant students who lit the path for our freedom. Siya's captaincy not only epitomises the transformation of a sport that was once racially segregated; it is the power of a dream fulfilled. This is the dream of a young man of humble circumstances to one day wear the green and gold jersey, and of a country that has enabled him to see it realised," Ramaphosa wrote on Monday morning.
"At a time when South Africa is experiencing profound challenges, we have rallied around the victory in Japan. The outpouring of support for the Springboks on the road to the final once again showed the immense potential of sport to unite us as a people.
"When Caster Semenya crosses the finish line, when Banyana Banyana find the back of the net, when Chad le Clos lifts his gold medal, when our national netball team, the Proteas are crowned Africa champions, all of South Africa is cheering on the sidelines. After generations of division, we have become a people with a great sense of national pride."

        READ | 
        
          'They are the best': President Cyril Ramaphosa 'elated' by Springboks
        
      
Ramaphosa said the country is not only united by the achievements of its sport stars or internationally acclaimed performers, such as the Ndlovu Youth Choir.

        'Shared desire for peace and comfort'
      
"We are also united by a shared desire for a country where all can live in peace and comfort, where all have an equal chance to achieve their potential.
"We are united by the vision of a country where the divisions of the past can be overcome, a nation of equality, dignity and respect for human rights. Over the past 25 years, we have been working together to build that nation. And while this is still very much a work in progress, we are firmly on the path to unite, renew and transform our society."
Ramaphosa said the spectre of racism, sexism, tribalism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance has "on occasion taken root in our society and has blindsided us as we strive towards our national objective of creating a non-racial, non-sexist, democratic, prosperous and tolerant society".
