
# 13 Biggest Soweto Derby Talking Points

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:44:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/telkom-knockout/13-biggest-soweto-derby-talking-points/666700)

After a couple of weeks of constant referee criticism by PSL coaches, we look at all the major incidents that took place during the Telkom Knockout quarter-final between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. 

        
          Read: TKO In Images As Chiefs & Sundowns Know SF Opponents
        
      
Below are the most major talking points from the clash and the minute in which they occurred. 
9 – Njabulo Blom catches Vincent Pule with his studs.  
22 – Samir Nurkovic heads home Khama Billiat’s pass but the offside flag is raised.  
31 – Thembinkosi Lorch appears to stamp on Khama Billiat’s leg. A mass altercation breaks out with Chiefs players needing to be restrained from confronting Lorch. 

        
          Read: Big Debate: Should Lorch Have Seen Red v Chiefs?
        
      
34 – Lorch creates a goal just seconds after only receiving a yellow card.
42 – Mthokozisi Dube goes into the book for catching Billiat late with his studs in a sliding challenge. 
44 – Rulani Mokwena motions to the referee that Pule was caught with an elbow by Erick Mathoho.
45 – Fortune Makaringe charges down a pass by Daniel Akpeyi and goes down under a challenge from the goalkeeper.  
50 – Dube gets his second yellow card after the referee deemed the right back to have pulled back Billiat.  

        
          Read: Chiefs: The Driving Energy Inside The Club
        
      
52 – Penalty appeal by Chiefs as Ntsikelelo Nyauza appears to catch Dumisani Zuma late in the box.  
55 – Penalty appeal for Pirates as Pule is set skywards by Yagan Sasman’s challenge.  
76 – Wayne Sandilands goes down with a hamstring injury and Pirates’ players assemble to discuss tactics on the sideline. Ernst Middendorp doesn’t think he was really hurt. 
92 – Abel Mabaso concedes a penalty for handball in the box.  
97 – Pirates appeal for a penalty as Lorch goes down inside the box. 

        
          What do you think of these incidents and their outcomes? Let us know by commenting below! 
        
      
