
# Manchester City’s Sergio Agüero and Kyle Walker sink brave Southampton

Published at: **2019-11-02T17:11:44+00:00**

Author: **Jamie Jackson**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/nov/02/manchester-city-southampton-premier-league-match-report)

Manchester City left it late to see off Southampton and ensure no further ground was ceded to Liverpool. When Kyle Walker steered home an 87th-minute winner the champions had finally broken down fiercely resistant opponents, having been behind to the south-coast side until the 70th minute.
At that point the visitors’ riposte to their 9-0 humbling by Leicester the last time out in the league appeared to be a shock victory over Pep Guardiola’s team. James Ward-Prowse’s 13th-minute strike, from an Ederson howler, had been protected admirably for nearly an hour as City hogged the ball yet could find no way through. But then Sergio Agüero’s volley from Walker’s cross gave the Argentinian a 13th goal of the season and the right-back’s late winner meant all three points were taken.
Guardiola was left pleased at his team’s tenacity against opponents who had lost 3-1 at the same venue in midweek. “We were patient but aggressive in all the actions – the corners, the throw-ins,” the manager said. “The rhythm was high from the first minute. Big compliment for the team. It was not easy but we did it.”
Guardiola was reminded of how Ralph Hasenhüttl’s side had been humiliated by Leicester. “Football players have pride,” he said. “They don’t want to live that again. It is our job to try and attack them.
“I knew it in the Carabao Cup. Our big problem in the last two games is one team who suffer with their own pride and they are not going to accept under any circumstances what happened against Leicester again. After the goal we conceded it is more difficult.”
City began the afternoon imperiously. Raheem Sterling’s instant control was followed by him moving inside. Agüero let fly a header. Ilkay Gündogan sought to play David Silva in with chipped balls along the left. Kevin De Bruyne smacked a shot at Jack Stephens.
The next time one was fired the visitors scored, though, from a simple move. Nathan Redmond fed Stuart Armstrong, who took aim from 20 yards. Ederson fumbled – a rare error from him – and Ward‑Prowse finished.
Guardiola saw what he would wish in response: City continuing to probe along the channels and across the Southampton ‘D’. The two Silvas – David and Bernardo – had efforts repelled by a Saints body. Here was a relentless blue wave that would surely engulf Southampton.
But no. Soon Guardiola was berating Angeliño for holding too deep a position and Gündogan for hesitating in possession. City ended the half facing a wall of black‑and‑yellow shirts that proved impossible to breach. Guardiola walked off at the interval maybe debating a change for the second half.
When it commenced he had – Gabriel Jesus on for the injured David Silva. The issue remained the same, though: could City turn all the ball they enjoyed into an equaliser? Jesus operated alongside Agüero in what was a front four, Bernardo Silva and Sterling completing the quartet.
City’s effort was admirable, their devilry lacking. When Guardiola raced to retrieve the ball for a Southampton throw-in an hour had not yet gone, so his franticness seemed premature. The manager’s mood was reflected in him kicking a bottle of water and darkened further when a Silva cross landed sweetly on Agüero’s head only for the striker to miss.
The City No 10 did not do so on 70 minutes. Walker pulled the ball back and Agüero’s volley beat Alex McCarthy through the goalkeeper’s legs. Now came City’s grandstand finish, culminating in Walker’s goal from seven or eight yards after McCarthy had mishandled an Angeliño cross. The scorer showed composure considering the stage of the match and what was at stake – and the result might have been even better for City if not for Liverpool’s later show in coming from behind to win at Aston Villa. “When we win, Liverpool still win,” Guardiola said.
“When they win many games in the last minute, it is because of special character. The first season we won the treble, we won four or five games in the last minute.”
He had ended the game infuriated at the officiating, causing Hasenhüttl to offer a telling observation. “We have seen him be a little bit nicer than today,” said the Austrian. “The reason – because he was a little bit nervous because he could lose this game.”
