
# Death Stranding explores cause of Trump and Brexit, creator Hideo Kojima says

Published at: **2019-11-04T10:42:47+00:00**

Author: **Andrew Griffin**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/gaming/death-stranding-trump-brexit-wall-mexico-border-hideo-kojima-interview-a9183991.html)

New game Death Stranding is an exploration of the "individualism" and connections that led to Donald Trump and Brexit, according to its creator Hideo Kojima.
The strange new game will be released next week and depicts a dystopian world where the player has to connect various people and places together. Players must carry objects and re-establish broken network connections.
The game is the first that Mr Kojima's has created as part of his own independent production company, but he is famous for his work on the Metal Gear Solid series. It will be released on 8 November.
The shattered world that it depicts was inspired by the divisions in the UK and US, he suggested in a new interview with BBC Radio 1 Newsbeat.
"The era of today is about individualism," he said.
"We may be connected through the internet more than ever, but what's happening is that people are attacking each other because we're so connected.
"President Trump right now is building a wall. Then you have Brexit, where the UK is trying to leave, there are lots of walls and people thinking only about themselves in the world.
"In Death Stranding we're using bridges to represent connection - there are options to use them or break them. It's all about making people think about the meaning of connection."
Mr Kojima said he hoped the game, which has a high-profile cast including The Walking Dead star Norman Reedus and former Bond villain Mads Mikkelsen, could speak to players in a way he suggests social media cannot.
"When we're connected we have a responsibility over each other, social media doesn't seem to have that responsibility for example," he said.
"Caring for each other is what makes people feel good. We've always been like that in the past, I want people to remember that and feel it in my game."
The game is an exclusive on the PlayStation 4, before launching on PC next year.
Early reviews of Death Stranding have been mixed, with gaming website Eurogamer calling it a "baffling, haunting, grand folly".

        Additional reporting by agencies
      
