
# My Chemical Romance Are Coming To Australia And Holy Shit This Isn’t A Drill

Published at: **2019-11-05T21:29:04+00:00**

Author: **Jules LeFevre**

Original: [Junkee](https://junkee.com/my-chemical-romance-download-festival-lineup/227543)

Emo kings My Chemical Romance have been locked in to headline the 2020 edition of Download Australia.
The New Jersey natives announced just last Friday that they’ll be reuniting at a show in Los Angeles in December — as of yet, their two Download Australia dates are the only other performances they have lined up. They were last in the country to headline Big Day Out in 2012; they split in 2013.
They’ll be joined at Download by Deftones — who are gearing up to release a new album in 2020 — and fellow emo outfit Jimmy Eat World, who were last here in 2017. There’ll also be sets from Clutch, Ministry, In Flames, Testament, and Scottish outfit Alestorm.
On the local side, Hands Like Houses will be stepping up, as will Byron Bay metalcore dons In Hearts Wake, Melbourne’s Ne Obliviscaris, and veterans Bodyjar. Check out the line-up below — this is only the first announce, so expect plenty more acts to be added before long.
Download will land at Melbourne’s Showgrounds on March 20 and Sydney’s Parramatta Park on March 21. If you’re a previous Download punter, you’ll be able to buy tickets from Monday November 8, while Moshtix and Ticketmaster pre-sales happen from November 11 — general tickets will go on sale November 13.
My Chemical Romance – (Only Aus Shows)DeftonesJimmy Eat WorldClutch (Only Aus Shows)MinistryIn FlamesTestamentAlestorm (Only Aus Shows)CarcassLacuna Coil (Only Aus Shows)Hands Like HousesIn Hearts WakeThe HUBaronessNe ObliviscarisBodyjarNew Years DayClownsVenom PrisonSKYNDThornhillDisentombStand AtlanticPliniRedHookDregg
