
# Sunday with Paula Radcliffe: ‘What’s better than a chilled rosé on the beach?’

Published at: **2019-11-03T06:45:08+00:00**

Author: **Michael Segalov**

Original: [the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2019/nov/03/sunday-with-paula-radcliffe-whats-better-than-a-rose-on-the-beach)


        The athlete on French vineyards, James Patterson – and setting world records
      
Is Sunday a day of rest? Rarely. Sunday is marathon day. As a kid I’d be racing at the track; as a professional it’s the day I’d compete. Now I’m often at events as an ambassador or to commentate – last Sunday in Chicago, I was up at 5am.
What about days off? I stay in bed as along as possible, or until my nine-year-old decides I’ve had enough sleep. Sunday breakfast is pancakes, we make them together, and then I’ll head out for a run. That’s when I have space to think.
How do you relax? We live in Monaco, so on the beach with kayaks in the summer. Antibes is beautiful and not too far away. When it’s colder we might head to the mountains and ski, or I’ll stay at home with my daughter, who loves to bake.
Do you ever have the day to yourself? Never happens, and I’d be lost. I suppose I’d potter in the garden and do jobs around the house, then sprawl on the sofa and open my book. Right now that’s James Patterson’s 19th Christmas. It’s easy reading, and I like the suspense.
The best Sunday lunch? At home with friends. I’m not one for traditional Sunday roasts – my cooking is quick and healthy: salmon, salads and stir fries. The rule is nothing that takes longer than half an hour.
Do you drink? Yes, though that’s not limited to Sundays. There are so many French vineyards on our doorstep – and what’s better than a chilled rosé on the beach?
A special Sunday? Marathons, again. I set both of my world records on Sunday, but I’ll never forget the London race day in 1985. I was waiting to cheer my dad on at the side of the road, aged 11, when Ingrid Kristiansen – in the middle of breaking her world record – came running past. It was inspirational to witness, such a special moment.

        Paula Radcliffe is fronting 
        Asda Pharmacy’s campaign to encourag
        e 
        the flu jab
      
