
# Long-Term Future Awaits Anthony Rizzo, Cubs After $16.5 Million Club Option

Published at: **2019-11-04T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Jeff Arnold**

Original: [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeffarnold/2019/11/04/long-term-future-awaits-anthony-rizzo-cubs-after-165-million-club-option/)

Plenty of water has passed under the baseball bridge in Chicago since Cubs first baseman Anthony Rizzo gloved the final out of the 2016 World Series and famously tucked the ball into his back hip pocket.But as the Cubs begin a new chapter following a season in which they failed to make the playoffs for the first time in five years and parted ways with manager Joe Maddon, Rizzo – the Gold Glove-winning first baseman – remains the closest thing to a sure thing the Cubs have in their back pocket.
On Monday, the Cubs made the news that was the farthest thing from a secret official: They would pick up Rizzo’s $16.5 million club option for 2020, which likely opens the door for an even more extended stay down the road. As the Cubs entered the offseason in search of a manager and with team President Theo Epstein insisting there were no “untouchables” as the franchise moved ahead, Rizzo remained unofficially that – an untouchable who would remain a cornerstone as the Cubs hit the reset button.
Rizzo, 30, hit .293 with 27 home runs and 94 RBI in 146 games last season. His .297 average was a career-best as was his .405 on-base percentage and he hit at least 25 home runs for the sixth straight season. But numbers aside, Rizzo has, in many ways, become the face of a franchise that will now attempt to again find its footing under new manager David Ross, whom Rizzo campaigned for after the two were teammates on the Cubs’ 2016 World Series championship team.
At a time when Epstein called for accountability from a new manager, Rizzo has been an oft-quoted voice of reason at the times this past season when the Cubs struggled and who became one of the most trusted, tell–it-like-it-is voices in the clubhouse. Moving forward, Rizzo will be an anchor for a team that will likely have plenty of new faces when spring training commences as the Cubs begin to pick apart a core that could be without veteran utility player Ben Zobrist, shortstop Addison Russell and others.
With Rizzo secured for next season, what happens with third baseman and former National League MVP Kris Bryant is anything but certain. While Rizzo and shortstop Javier Baez will resume their positions as Cubs mainstays, Bryant’s future on Chicago’s North Side isn’t nearly as predictable.
According to published reports, Major League Baseball will hold a grievance hearing in regard to Bryant’s long-standing service time issue. Bryant is one day short in terms of his service time, which keeps him from becoming a free agent following the 2020 season. Had Bryant been called up from the minors by the Cubs one day earlier than he was as a rookie, he would have been eligible for free agency next year rather than having to wait until after the 2021 season as is now the case.
How that hearing plays out will likely determine how the Cubs handle Bryant’s time with the team moving forward. Bryant reportedly turned down a $200 million contract extension before last season. Whether the Cubs could opt to shop Bryant in the coming months remains a possibility, which, at one time appeared to be unheard of due to his popularity with fans and his on-field production. As the Cubs ponder Bryant’s future, their dedication to Rizzo has always remained unwavering. Rizzo has reciprocated with his own level of commitment, which included him returning from a serious ankle injury late in the season while the Cubs were pushing to somehow salvage their postseason hopes.
Rizzo, who signed a seven-year, $41 million deal in 2013 and that included a pair of club options totaling another $33 million, returned from an ankle sprain four days after his foot slid in the infield grass rather than missing several weeks, which was widely expected.
“We’ve got to win now,” Rizzo said in September. “And I love this team. I love playing. That’s what I want to do. It’s what I love to do – playing baseball, especially for this team that we’re fighting at Wrigley Field in late September to go to the playoffs and that’s where all the magic happens.”
Even though the Cubs playoff push never materialized the way Rizzo hoped, his plans to remain with the team never seemed to be in question. While there are plenty of questions as to what Rizzo will have around him when the season begins, Rizzo plans to be contribute to a team that many believed would continue to win after snapping its 108-year championship drought in 2016. While that hasn’t happened, Ross said he would do his best to not deliver just one more World Series title to Chicago as the Cubs manager, but multiple championships while re-establishing the magic that occurred three years ago.
Now with the first step out of the way and with a longer-term contract extension on the way – possibly as early as this off-season, Rizzo wants to join in for the ride.
“It’s out of my control – I’m not sure when the time is right,” Rizzo said of his future with the Cubs in August. “I’m financially set but I do want to stay here. I do want to be a Cub. Everyone wants to stay when you’ve been with one franchise for a long time. But this is a business and it’s cut throat as ever right now.”
