
# Gasoline Alley philanthropist Ron Carey killed in U.K. highway collision

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:27:47+00:00**

Author: **Stephanie Babych**

Original: [Calgary Herald](https://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/calgary-philanthropist-ron-carey-killed-in-u-k-highway-collision)

Calgary philanthropist Ron Carey was killed Sunday in a collision on the M23 motorway near London, while participating in a vintage car rally, according to a U.K. news outlet.
Carey worked closely with Heritage Park president and CEO Alida Visbach, who confirmed his passing Monday. The 80-year-old philanthropist donated his massive antique car, truck and gas pump collection to the historical park, sparking the construction of the 10-year-old Gasoline Alley. Carey also contributed financially to local organizations including the Alberta Children’s Hospital and STARS air ambulance.
“When I first moved to Calgary about 14 years ago, I didn’t know many people,” recalls Visbach. “Ron was one of the first people I met and I saw him as the epitome of what a true Western Canadian is about. He was someone who works hard and is dedicated to the community; somebody who is a family man, authentic and really selfless.”
The Telegraph reported that Carey was driving a 1903 Knox Porcupine classic car in the London to Brighton Veteran Car Run when he took a wrong turn onto the M23 motorway and collided with another vehicle. The vintage car was from his personal collection of favourites, according to Visbach.
Carey’s wife Billi was also in the 116-year-old car when it crashed and was airlifted to a nearby hospital with injuries, according to The Telegraph. Sussex police told The Telegraph she was still in hospital Monday but in stable condition.
The Veteran Car Run is an annual celebration of the Light Locomotives on the Highway Act, which was passed in 1896, allowing certain vehicles to travel 10 miles per hour faster and removing the requirement for cars to be preceded by a man on foot with a red flag.
About 400 cars took part in the rally which “has passed through the same stretch of the A23 since 1974,” reported The Telegraph. Sussex police told The Telegraph no arrests have been made and the investigation is ongoing.
Carey began a career in oil and gas in 1956 when he was still a teenager, working on oil rigs and road-building crews. In the early 1970s, he opened J&L Supply, an oilfield service company.
Around that time, he began collecting and restoring vintage cars with his first being a 1956 Lincoln convertible. His collection grew as he added more cars, trucks, gas pumps, signage and other memorabilia.
“He worked really hard. Coming from humble beginnings, he worked his way up to building his company and patenting a design for diamond-tipping drill bits and replacing those diamond tips. He established J&L Supply,” said Visbach, adding that his passion for collecting also included antique pottery and game-hunting trophies.
In 2002, Carey donated a large part of his collection to Heritage Park, though there wasn’t a space to store or display the vehicles. In 2006, Heritage Park took on a $65-million expansion to create Gasoline Alley and add the other restaurants and shops that line the Heritage Town Square. The vehicle museum officially opened in 2009, built around Carey’s vintage collection.
“We wouldn’t have Gasoline Alley if it wasn’t for Mr. Carey,” said Visbach. “On display are 67 vehicles, 300 gas pumps, approximately 100 air pumps and 120 vintage signs, including neon. The collection, when we acquired it 10 years ago, was valued at approximately $10 million and obviously, it’s appreciated much more since then.”
In April, when Heritage Park celebrated the 10-year anniversary of Gasoline Alley with Carey, the philanthropist said he was no longer collecting or restoring vehicles but had continued to refurbish vintage gas pumps.
“He was so involved with the community but in a very quiet way. He never stood up and said, ‘Look at what I’ve done.’ I don’t know anybody else like him,” said Visbach.
— With files from Olivia Condon

        sbabych@postmedia.com
      
On Twitter: @BabychStephanie
