
# ATP Tour Finals 2019 draw LIVE: Djokovic and Federer drawn together as Nadal faces Zverev

Published at: **2019-11-05T14:05:04+00:00**

Author: **Lawrence Ostlere**

Original: [The Independent](https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/live/atp-tour-finals-2019-draw-live-schedule-nitto-nadal-djokovic-federer-a9185906.html?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter)

Follow live updates of the 2019 draw, after Rafael Nadal said he will travel to the ATP finals in London after undergoing a scan on an abdominal injury that forced him to retire from last week's Paris Masters at the semi-final stage.
"Yesterday I had a scan in Mallorca and despite having a small strain in my right abdominal, I will travel to London," the world number one said in a statement on his official Twitter account on Tuesday. "On Thursday or Friday I will start training on my serve and my aim is to be able to play the ATP Finals in London. Thanks for your support."
Even though he withdrew from his semi-final tie with Denis Shapovalov, Nadal's run to the last four in Paris saw him reclaim the number one spot from Novak Djokovic on Monday. The ATP finals take place between Nov. 10-17. Nadal has never won the tournament, losing in the final to Roger Federer in 2010 and Djokovic in 2013, when it was known as the ATP World Tour finals. Follow it live:
Show latest update2019-11-05T13:58:58.160Z
GROUP AGASSINadalMedvedevTsitsipasZverev
 
GROUP BORGDjokovicFedererThiemBerrettini
2019-11-05T14:01:21.976ZSo there are the groups – Rafael Nadal faces the challenge of three young talented players in his group, including the 22-year-old reigning champion Alexander Zverev. Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer collide in the other group, with Dominic Thiem and the new man on the block Matteo Berrettini hoping to cause an upset. 
2019-11-05T13:58:28.013ZRoger Federer is drawn with Novak Djokovic in the Bjorn Borg group!
2019-11-05T13:57:09.740ZDaniil Medvedev is drawn in the Andre Agassi group...
Advertisement2019-11-05T13:55:35.216ZThe pre-draw chit-chat is with last year's champion, Alexander Zverev, who is promising not to wear socks – which helped him to success last year – and who is excited to part of a cabal of five hope to shoot down the big three. 
2019-11-05T13:47:02.466ZWelcome to The Independent's live coverage of the ATP Finals draw.  After 64 tournaments in 31 countries, the season-ending event will be contested between the world's best eight players. Here are the seeds: 1 Rafael Nadal, 2 Novak Djokovic, 3 Roger Federer, 4 Daniil Medvedev, 5 Dominic Thiem, 6 Stefanos Tsitsipas, 7 Alexander Zverev, 8 Matteo Berrettini
The tournament starts on Sunday and concludes on the following Sunday 17 November. 
Tickets are available via the official Nitto ATP Finals website.
