
# Teenage rugby player's flu-like symptoms turn out to be killer sepsis

Published at: **2019-11-04T17:58:18+00:00**

Author: **Bradley Jolly, Tom Hitchenor, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/bradley-jolly/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/teenage-rugby-players-flu-like-20810918)

A talented teenage rugby player nearly died after her flu-like symptoms turned out to be signs of sepsis .
Jemima Moss, 17, said goodbye to her best friend after suffering multiple organ failure in hospital.
She was dashed there after collapsing at home when her heart rate became dangerously high.
Jemima, who plays for Worcester Warriors Women, spent a week in intensive care on life support after doctors found the symptoms were those of sepsis.
Sepsis is a vile disease, which kills 52,000 people in the UK each year alone.
But Jemima, a back-row forward, managed to pull through and incredibly was back playing rugby six months later.
"I remember this sad moment with my best friend, Evie, when one time I was weaned off life support but slipped back under (consciousness)," Jemima said.
 
“My family and Evie and her mum, Rachel, were there and as they were walking out I remember saying goodbye to Evie.
“I was holding her hand and not wanting to let her go and my sister was there as well and everyone was really upset.
“They told me that I asked them if I would wake up again, which was the saddest bit for them.”
The teenager was taken off life support on GCSE Results Day on August 23 last year after doctors feared she'd die.
 
It was first suggested the sepsis may have been caused by a bacterial infection she picked up while in South Africa on holiday earlier that summer but tests haven't proven this.
Now Jemima, Worcester Warriors and UK Sepsis Trust want to raise awareness of the disease.
The young athlete said she first thought her symptoms were as a result of "overdoing it" in training.
She said: “I had rugby few training a couple of days before I fell ill.
"I thought I'd overdone it because it was my first time training was with Worcester Warriors so felt a bit tired.
“I was due to meet my friends, but felt sick so I had a bath and put myself to bed. That's where it really started.
“Over the next few days, I just got progressively worse. I couldn't move. If I go out of bed, I would just collapse.
“I couldn't make it to the toilet or to the bathroom so I was just in the bed feeling awful.
“One night, it worsened. I was lying in my bed awake all night. I had a fan and water spray to cool me down.
■ Sepsis affects 250,000 people in the UK and kills 44,000 per year. That’s more than bowel, breast and prostate cancer and road accidents combined.
■ Sepsis is the body’s often deadly response to an infection.
■ Initially, it can look like flu or a chest infection, but it can swiftly get serious.
■ Seek medical help urgently if you develop any one of the following…
– are lethargic or difficult to wake
– feel abnormally cold to touch
– the skin looks mottled, bluish or pale
– are breathing very fast
– have a rash that does not fade when you press it
– have a fit or convulsion
 
“I tried to get to mum's room but I collapsed and my parents said they heard a big thump. My mum came like running into my room wondering what was wrong."
Worcester Warriors are holding a special fixture for Sepsis Awareness Day on December 1 at Sixways Stadium in the city.
Jemima's dad Andy, an international sports event manager, said: “One of the keys to being aware of sepsis is that it started like a cold.
“Her mum just felt it was a cold and she was in bed and then it sort of got worse to be like the flu.
“It went from just having a cold, fever and being a bit weak. It escalated really quickly. Being aware of those first symptoms really important.”
A spokesperson for Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust said: “We’re delighted to hear that Jemima has fully recovered and is back doing what she loves.
"It’s great that she will be coming back in to experience the life-saving work that our staff in Intensive Care carry out every day.
“We’re glad to be able to help Jemima with her ambition of a future medical career.”
