
# England 12-32 South Africa: Red Rose submit to Springboks' power in Rugby World Cup Final

Published at: **2019-11-02T11:14:57+00:00**

Author: **Alex Spink, https://www.facebook.com/alexspinkmirror/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/rugby-union/england-12-32-south-africa-20794074)

England's World Cup dream died a brutal death in Japan as South Africa powered to their third title in emphatic fashion.
Favourites to repeat their hammering of the All Blacks, England instead ran into the irresistible power of the Springboks, who battered them into submission.
Wales boss Warren Gatland had wondered out loud in the week whether England had played their final in the semi-final and so it proved.
Second half tries by Bok wings Makazole Mapimpi and Cheslin Kolbe, and 22 points from the boot of Handre Pollard, left Eddie Jones' men with only tears for souvenirs.
 
“I don't know where this has come from,” said 2003 winner Matt Dawson on BBC 5 live. “It's come from the gods. Their defensive line, their line speed, their discipline, their energy, has been simply fantastic.
“England have no answer. An amazing performance from a Springbok team who everybody wrote off.
"A royal thrashing of England in the World Cup final.”
England had known what was coming but knowing and dealing with the sort of uplift in physical brutality brought by the Boks are two different things.
Losing tighthead prop Kyle Sinckler to concussion after a freak collision with Maro Itoje’s elbow less than three minutes int the contest set the tone for a quite horrible first half.
You had to admire what South Africa brought to the party. They had made no secret of their team selection long before they announced it.
There was no pretence about what their tactics would be, route one and hard as you like into every collision.
They simply did what the Springboks do and in Pollard had a goal kicker in a rich vein of form to take full advantage.
Perhaps it would have been different had not Sinckler gone to tackle jack-in-a-Boks wing Makazole Mapimpi and been knocked sparko.
England were already on the back foot due to the way Rassie Erasmus’ side had bolted out of the traps at the first whistle.
But losing their young star and having to readjust to the ways of replacement Dan Cole so early unsettled them more than can ever have been expected of a side which had battered the All Blacks.
As the intensity continued to crack up England’s composure started to fracture. Passes were knocked on, kicking from hand became inaccurate and the penalties at scrum time started to rack up.
The bad luck was not solely England’s preserve as South Africa lost Mbongeni Mbonambi and Lood de Jager in the same move on 22 minutes.
But their set-piece superiority was unaffected and despite two Farrell penalties, England were frustrated on their only foray into the enemy red zone by watertight Bok defence.
From there it was all Erasmus’ team as Pollard kicked four goals to put his side 12-6 ahead at the break - significant as no side had ever won the World Cup when trailing at the midpoint.
No change with the new half despite South Africa surprisingly changing both props barely four minutes after the restart. The new models picked up where they had left off.
England had to do something and Jones, having replaced Courtney Lawes with the greater bulk of George Kruis at the break, sacrificed the carrying of Mako Vunipola for the tight work of Joe Marler.
It worked a treat as England ploughed through the South African scrum at the first attempt and when Farrell kicked the penalty the men in white, improbably, were back to within a score.
Now they had to score the next points but they could not. And despite Farrell levelling Pollard’s kick the decisive moment was at hand.
South Africa attacked down the narrow side Mapimpi kicked ahead for Lukhanyo Am to gather and the centre then flipped the ball over his shoulder and back into the wing's hands for a splendid score.
Referee Jerome Garces checked for a forward pass but the try stood and England were cut adrift at 12-25.
Worse was to follow. South Africa came again, this time down the right. Kolbe got the ball, danced round four forwards and then left Farrell clutching at thin air.
It was emblematic of the game.
The Boks were simply too good and as the final whistle put England out of their misery, Siya Kolisi became the first black captain ever to lift the World Cup,
Pens: Farrell 4.
Tries: Kolbe, Mapimpi.
Cons: Pollard 2.
Pens: Pollard 6.
