
# Mum's controversial trick to save time as she puts kids to bed wearing next day's clothes

Published at: **2019-11-01T09:20:55+00:00**

Author: **James Rodger, Luke Matthews, https://www.facebook.com/jamesrodgerjournalist**

Original: [birminghammail](https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/news/uk-news/mums-controversial-trick-save-time-17182657)

A mum-of-two has sparked a fierce parenting debate - after admitting to putting her kids to bed wearing the NEXT DAY'S clothing.
Lisa Lamond is a star of Australian renovation show House Rules, and has shed light on her somewhat bizarre trick.
The mum revealed her rather unusual hack to save time in the mornings.
Every morning, mums and dads will be rushed for time, trying to feed their kids breakfast, get them dressed - and prepare for work themselves.
But Lisa revealed she and her husband Adam have devised a canny plan.
Mirror Online reports the pair share two young daughters, Arabella, 3, and Ruby, 2.
"My daughters like to dress themselves from head to toe," Lisa told  Whimn  . "On days I’m working in particular, I don’t have a spare hour while they pull up one sock.
"So the best piece of advice I’ve been given is to dress your kids the night before in the clothes you want them to go out in."
The next day she simply wakes them up, changes their nappy, puts on their shoes and they head out of the door, adding: "It works wonders for me and where I'm at in life at the moment."
 
Lisa also recommends negating the hassle of the weekly shop with two young children in tow by taking advantage of online supermarket delivery and says she always leaves Sunday as a family day to spend quality time together.
As well as mornings, bath times are often challenging, with Lisa describing them as 'the bane of my existence'.
Using her negotiating skills, the mum and her offspring came to the agreement she could wash their hair if they were allowed to fill the bath with slime. Seems fair.
With one of her daughters becoming attached and struggling with having to go to kindergarten, Lisa says she devised a morning and evening routine, printed out with words and pictures to follow along, helping the little one to preempt what's to come when she's feeling anxious.
She also urged fellow parents not to compare themselves to others, admitting at one stage she wouldn't go out because she thought she couldn't control her daughters and felt embarrassed.
 
"We all have our own pace and ways of coping," she added. "But I got over it and learned how to diffuse the situation."
