
# Energy supplier slammed for sending letter and cheque for 1p to customer

Published at: **2019-11-03T05:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Emma Munbodh, https://www.facebook.com/EmmaMunbodh**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/money/energy-supplier-slammed-sending-letter-20770169)

A Scottish Power customer who had his account mistakenly closed has said he's been sent a 'refund' cheque for 1p, despite being back on the supplier’s books.
Wayne Gordon, from Liverpool, has slammed the energy giant’s poor customer service after they wrongly closed his account – after he requested for his details to be switched over to his new property earlier this year.
Six months later, Wayne, 42, has been sent a bill for a penny – which he’s described as ‘ridiculous’.
“I moved to a new house in April, and requested to have my account switched across,” he told Mirror Money.
“For ease, I decided to stay with Scottish Power – however this has been far from straightforward.”
 
This week, he said he’s finally had his online account reactivated – despite paying for his gas and electricity since April – and has now bizarrely been sent a refund for 1p.
“It’s ridiculous to think that an energy giant of this scale is wasting money on paperwork and bureaucracy when there are people out there genuinely suffering from fuel poverty and in need of their help.
“We can laugh at the error – but it’s not amusing when you think about the people out there that are seeing their bills rising, while companies are wasting money like this."
The customer, who has been with Scottish Power for five years, said its latest blunder has put him off the firm for good.
 
“Part of the reason why I chose to stay was because of my smart meter compatibility,” the mortgage advisor said.
“However, I soon discovered that it was in fact incompatible in my new address, which has been the icing on the cake.
“To top it all off, I was placed on hold for 30 minutes, desperately trying to get an answer out of the supplier."
Scottish Power said that due to its internal error, it had to send the refund out in cheque format.
This is because Wayne was ‘in credit’, which meant regardless of how trivial the amount was, it had to refund the balance.
Unfortunately, as Wayne’s account had been deactivated due to a separate error, his bank details had been wiped from its systems, meaning it had to be sent manually.
A Scottish Power spokesperson told Mirror Money: "Credits are normally paid electronically however, when an account is closed we can no longer do this and make the repayment by cheque.
"The customer’s original account was closed when he moved and a new account set up at his new address.
"It’s important that all credits are repaid when an account is closed."
