
# Rafa Benitez explains why Liverpool are favourites for Premier League title

Published at: **2019-11-06T10:45:39+00:00**

Author: **Jacob Murtagh, https://www.mirror.co.uk/authors/jacob-murtagh/**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/rafa-benitez-explains-liverpool-favourites-20822542)

Rafa Benitez has backed Liverpool to end their long wait for a Premier League title.
The Reds haven't won the championship since 1990 but are battling Manchester City for top honours again this term after pushing the champions all the way last campaign.
Jurgen Klopp's side go into Sunday's showdown with City six point clear of their rivals after an unbeaten start to the season.
Benitez, who steered Liverpool to the Champions League in 2005, reckons his old club will hold their nerve in the title race.
He wrote in the Athletic: "After last year, Liverpool have more experience and that’s always a positive, but City have grown used to being at the top. They know what it takes to win. They also have fantastic talent.
"What Liverpool possess is the advantage and they certainly have the potential to go one step further, but this is football and it’s far too early to talk about what will happen in May. Nothing is definitive in November.
"Are Liverpool doing well? Yes. Do they have a great team and a great manager? Yes. Can they win the title? Yes, of course.
"Why can they win it? Because they’ve done things right for the last few years and now they have the resources to back that up. That’s the biggest difference."
Liverpool go into the game on the back of Tuesday night's 2-1 win over Genk.
Goals from Georginio Wijnaldum and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain - either side of Ally Mbwana Samatta's equaliser just before half-time - was enough to take them top of Group E and within a win of qualifying for the knockout stage with a match to spare.
Klopp was relieved to get through the game without any injuries ahead of Sunday's crunch clash.
"'Job done' is the headline for the game, pretty much, but the group is not decided. It's a tough group," he said.
"The most important thing; we won and nobody is injured. Apart from that, the result is the result because we didn't finish our situations off like we should and could have done.
