
# Does the Pakistani media industry have the guts to boycott Khalilur Rehman Qamar?

Published at: **2019-11-01T13:07:00+00:00**

Author: **Sana Adnan**

Original: [The Express Tribune Blog](https://blogs.tribune.com.pk/story/90078/does-the-pakistani-industry-have-the-guts-to-boycott-khalilur-rehman-qamar/)


        I had once been one of the most avid viewers of local television content. Gradually though, I stopped following most local dramas and became very selective about what I chose to watch – but given that my job is related to digital media, I do have to keep an eye on the latest developments in the film and drama industry. Every other day, I find celebrities complaining about the vile comments that people make on their social media profiles, mostly judging them, assassinating their characters and even slut-shaming them. I have always felt for them and wondered why our masses continue to spew such vitriolic statements and repeatedly perpetuate archaic gender stereotypes, especially when it comes to women. I have long wondered why society continues to view women in a binary way, as either good and pure or bad and vindictive. I got my answer to this question when I accidentally came across Khalilur Rahman Qamar’s recent 
        interview
        . I also suddenly realised why I had stopped watching local content, and although the interview is rather alarming, it did not particularly shock me.
      
A major chunk of our public spends a decent amount of their time in front of their television sets daily. The day begins with morning shows and ends with prime-time drama serials followed by repeat telecasts. If you closely analyse the content, you will begin to realise just how problematic it is. A good woman is submissive, dresses in shalwar kameez and wears minimal makeup. She is a doormat almost, who takes care of all the household’s needs and chores regardless of how toxic the environment is. On the other hand, the bad woman, or the vamp in a drama is always outspoken, bold, modern and more often than not, career-oriented. There is also a sense of shame that they attach to women indulging in certain behaviours, such as smoking because women, usually playing morally ambiguous characters smoke on television. Not to mention, cigarettes are suddenly related to honour when in a woman’s hand. The problem does not end at the abysmal unrealistic portrayal of women and many dramas make matters worse by treating sensitive issues such as rape and halala as mere tools for sensationalism. The insensitive portrayal of these themes often also attempts to humanise abusive men. One of my formerly favourite serials, Shukk had the audacity to justify the male protagonist cheating on his wife because he blamed her for losing their child. 
