
# Lindsey Graham expects 'stunning' FISA report after receiving update from Attorney General William Barr

Published at: **2019-11-07T01:13:45+00:00**

Author: **Daniel Chaitin**

Original: [Washington Examiner](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/lindsey-graham-expects-stunning-fisa-report-after-receiving-update-from-attorney-general-william-barr)

After meeting with Attorney General William Barr, Republican South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham said he is certain the inspector general report on alleged Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act abuses will "prove that the system got off the rails."
Graham, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, received an update from Barr on Wednesday about the classification review of Inspector General Michael Horowitz's report.
He told Fox News host Martha MacCallum that the report "is about done" and afterward expects to bring Horowitz before the committee "to talk about what he’s found in terms of FISA intelligence abuse in the counterinvestigation of the Trump campaign."
"I think his report is going to be stunning. I think it is going to be damning. I think it’s going to prove that the system got off the rails and we need corrective action. Where I go from there I won’t know until I hear from him," he said.
Horowitz announced in mid-September the completion of his year-and-a-half investigation into whether federal officials abused the FISA process to obtain warrants to surveil onetime Trump campaign adviser Carter Page. He provided a draft copy of the report to the Justice Department and the FBI for the classification review, and a public copy of the report is expected to be released to the public at about Thanksgiving or later.
