
# Now serving: Jollibee’s cheesy breakfast pies

Published at: **2019-11-05T01:18:47+00:00**

Author: **Coconuts Manila**

Original: [Coconuts](https://coconuts.co/manila/food-drink/now-serving-jollibees-cheesy-breakfast-pies/)

What with traffic snarls and hours-long commutes, it can be tough for Manileños to have a sit-down breakfast. That’s why we say screw a sit-down breakfast! Stuff your pie-hole standing up, with Jollibee’s new offering: breakfast hand pies!

        Read: Coco-nuts, Rejoice: Jollibee introduces its own version of buko pie
      
The hot, crispy pies come in two versions: Cheesy Corned Beef and Cheesy Bacon. Each come with their respective meats plopped into a glistening, deep-fried crust with cheese and mashed potato for a mere PHP49 each (less than US$1). And with all the fried dough, processed meat, and dairy fat that active bodies crave, they’re a healthy part of a balanced breakfast!**
The pies will be available starting today and until further notice in stores across Luzon. They’re available for dine-in, take-out, drive-through, or delivery.
Jollibee, of course, needs no introduction, having made its name with its famed crispy Chicken Joy, and its uniquely sweet, hotdog-topped Jollibee Spaghetti — two bona fide staples anywhere Filipinos are found.
**Coconuts Manila is not a licensed healthcare provider, just an enthusiastic proponent of greasy fast food; it makes no claims to scientific accuracy with its use of the word “healthy.”

        
          FIND IT:
        
        
        Jollibee is at Chinabank carpark, Valero cor. Villar St., Salcedo Village, Makati City (and other locations)
        
        Open Monday – Sunday, 7am to 10pm 
        
        Phone: +63 894-4502
        
        FB: @JollibeePhilippines | IG: @Jollibee
      

        What’s your take on breakfast? 
        Leave us a comment below or tweet us @CoconutsManila.
      

        Read more about places to eat around the metro 
        
          here
        
        .
      
