
# Middendorp Explains Chiefs’ Eight Changes

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Soccer Laduma**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/why-chiefs-made-eight-changes/666950)

Kaizer Chiefs coach Ernst Middendorp has explained why he made as many as eight changes to his line-up following their 2-0 victory over Chippa United in an Absa Premiership clash played at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium last night.  
Amakhosi had come off an absorbing 120 minutes of football against Orlando Pirates four days earlier, beating their Soweto rivals on penalties to progress to the semifinals of the Telkom Knockout – and the coach was advised to rest a few stars. 

        
          Check out the gallery for list of players who got rare starts
        
      
“I would say a bit of a cramping start, but it is normal with the number of changes we had to make. A lot of players haven’t been involved in the last games for the full 90 minutes – Siyabonga Ngezana, Philani Zulu, (Siphosakhe) Ntiya-Ntiya, Kgotso Moleko, Lazarous (Kambole) just to mention a number, as well as Bruce Bvuma, the goalkeeper,” Middendorp told the media after the game. 
Bernard Parker and two-goal hero Dumsani Zuma also got to start.  
“And then it’s normal, you not knowing where you sitting, where you standing. You could see it in the first half already I had a feeling something is possible to develop. But it is good that in this moment we can have players come in and replace others who are injured or not fit in such a game. It’s probably a little bit of our advantage that we can," said Middendorp. 
Chiefs, who went seven points clear of the standings on Wednesday night, host Pirates again on Saturday, this time in a league fixture at the FNB Stadium.

        Earn Airtime & Data With Soccer Laduma’s Social Media App - Download Now   
      
