
# Nest Secure will soon be able to detect breaking windows

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:07:12+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/nest-secure-will-soon-be-able-detect-breaking-windows?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
If you've got a Nest Secure, your home is about to get a little safer because it will soon be able to detect the sound of glass breaking. The new feature is set to roll out in early November and will be able to detect sounds of breaking glass from a window or door with its built-in microphone and then sound the alarm.
Previously, the microphone was reserved exclusively for Google Assistant commands, but soon that won't be the case. And while Glass break may make your home safer, it can also raise some new privacy concerns. Not to worry though, Google ensures that even though it is possible for it to misclassify some loud sounds as glass breaking, that all the audio will be processed on the device itself and will not be sent to Google servers.
Glass break detection will be disabled by default, but once it rolls out, you can enable it in the app by following these steps.
Even after enabling Glass break detection, there are some things to keep in mind. For starters, your Nest Secure must be placed within 15 feet of the window or door you want it to monitor. Also, there must not be any obstructions in the way such as curtains or a wall because it could interfere with your Nest Secure's monitoring. Finally, Glass break works best when your home is quiet, for example, when you are away from home or late at night when everyone is sleeping.
This isn't the first time we've seen this sort of security feature. Nearly a year ago, Amazon released something similar for its Echo branded smart speakers called Alexa Guard which detects sounds like glass breaking or even your smoke alarms and will push an alert to your phone. Perhaps we'll see Google roll this out to its Assistant-enabled speakers in the future if all goes well once it launches on the Nest Secure.  
Smart security
The Nest Secure Alarm Starter Pack gives you everything you need to get started with protecting your home. Included in the box is Nest Secure base, two tags, and two detectors to help you monitor your home for unwanted visitors.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.

        App Defense Offense Google's App Defense Alliance teams up to fight malware on Android Google is sharing technology and creating a partnership of mobile endpoint security companies to identify and control the spread of malware
      

        come closer Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max can now react based on your proximity Ultrasonic sensing is now rolling out to the Nest Hub and Nest Hub Max, which allows them to dynamically change what is on the display as you get closer or further away.
      

        Because I'm happppyyyy Are you happy with the Pixel 4? The Pixel 4 has received a lot of criticism since its release, but taking a look through the AC forums, many people are really happy with the phone. What about you?
      

        Security just got fashionable Best accessories for your Blink security systems Being secure is always important, but what accessories are out there that further improves your security system? Thankfully, I have just the answers for you.
      
