
# MIUI 11 to add 3 new features - Currently at internal testing stage

Published at: **2019-11-05T19:41:05+00:00**

Author: **Efe Udin**

Original: [Gizchina](https://www.gizchina.com/2019/11/05/miui-11-to-add-3-new-features-focus-mode-vientiane-screen-custom-image-class-schedule/)

MIUI 11 to add 3 new features – Currently at internal testing stage4.4 (87.57%) 37 votes
The stable version of MIUI 11 started rolling out in mid-October. While Xiaomi is preparing this update for more devices, it is also adding some new features. According to reports, Xiaomi is preparing Focus mode, Vientiane screen custom image & Class schedule features for MIUI 11. Presently, these new features are still in the internal testing stage. However, let us take a look at what these features have to offer
MIUI’s Focus Mode is designed to give phone users a compulsory break from their smartphones. When Focus Mode is active, you can not have access to your device even if you restart the phone. During this period, only emergency calls and camera functions will be active. The maximum settings time for Focus Mode is 90 minutes. However, you can choose to set the time at 20 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, and 60 minutes. You can turn on Focus mode in Settings > Screen Time Management.
MIUI 11 comes with a Vientiane screen to make the interface screen more dynamic and personalized. Users’ feedback suggests that this feature has been a success. In order to further meet everyone’s personalized needs, Xiaomi has added custom image features for Vientiane, as well as support for emoji expressions. You can choose any image as the screen pattern, and the black background or transparent background will look better.
According to Xiaomi, there has been a consistent call for a feature that helps MIUI users plan their schedules. To this end, the Xiaomi calendar, Xiao Ai, and Xiaomi assistant teams are working together to develop the Xiaomi Class Schedule feature which is currently in testing.

        Via
      
