
# Sensex soars 184 points to hit record closing high of 40,654; Nifty ends above 12,000-mark

Published at: **2019-11-07T10:31:01+00:00**

Author: **TIMESOFINDIA.COM**

Original: [The Times of India](https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/sensex-soars-184-points-to-hit-record-closing-high-of-40654-nifty-ends-above-12000-mark/articleshow/71954595.cms)

NEW DELHI: Continuing its bullish run, the benchmark BSE sensex jumped 184 points to its new record closing high of 40,654, led by gains in pharma and financial stocks, as positive domestic cues boosted investor sentiment.
The 30-share index touched an all-time intra-day high of 40,688.27 in late deals. It finally ended 183.96 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 40,653.74.
The broader NSE Nifty reclaimed the 12,000-mark to close 50.05 points or 0.42 per cent at 12,016.10.
Top gainers in the sensex pack include Sun Pharma, IndusInd bank, Reliance, ITC, Vedanta, Asian Paints, HDFC with their shares rising as much as 3.03 per cent.
On the other hand, Yes bank, Hindustan Unilever, ONGC, Axis Bank, Tata Motors, LT and NTPC were the major losers with their stocks down as much as 3.27 per cent.
On NSE, all sub-indices -- except for Nifty PSU Bank and Nifty Auto -- finished in green, with Nifty Metal and Realty rising as much as 1.09 per cent.
The government on Wednesday approved a Rs 25,000 crore fund to help complete over 1,600 stalled housing projects, including ones that have been declared NPAs or admitted for insolvency proceedings, as it looks to boost growth by steering consumption in real estate and associated sectors.
According to experts, the fresh booster to the real estate sector, which will have a positive impact on other industries as well, strong corporate earnings and sustained foreign fund inflow have buoyed domestic market sentiment.
Further, global markets turned positive after the Chinese commerce ministry said that China and the US have agreed on a plan to remove tariffs imposed on two-way goods in stages, as negotiators try to craft a trade deal.
Meanwhile, the Indian rupee appreciated 5 paise to 70.92 against the US dollar intra-day.
Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 1.38 per cent to $62.59 per barrel.

        (With agency inputs)
      
