
# Hoffenheim Up To Fifth Spot With Big Victory

Published at: **2019-11-01T23:26:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/bundesliga-news/bundesliga-report-hoffenheim-v-paderborn-01-november-2019/666582)


        Bundesliga
      
Result: Hoffenheim v Paderborn
Date: 01 November 2019
Venue: PreZero Arena
Hoffenheim moved up to fifth in the Bundesliga table after a comprehensive 3-0 victory over Paderborn at Prezero Arena on Friday evening.
The hosts made only one change from their 3-2 victory over Hertha Berlin last weekend, with striker Ihlas Bebou starting ahead of Andrej Kramaric. Meanwhile, Paderborn were without key midfielder Klaus Gjsula who was suspended, while Gerrit Holtmann was preferred over Kai Proger upfront.
Hoffenheim got off to a great start as Robert Skov opened the scoring in just the second minute of the match with a stunning free-kick from 30-yards out.
Die Kraichgauer were two goals up in the 15th minute after Pavel Kaderabek slammed home a strike from the centre of the box after a through ball from Florian Grillitsch.
It got better for the home side 10 minutes later, when Jurgen Locadia bagged the third goal with a diagonal shot from the left side of the box after being set up by Kaderabek.
Bebou was a thorn in the flesh for the Paderborn in the closing phase of the first stanza and had two great chances but he was twice denied by goalkeeper Leopold Zingerle.
Die Kraichgauer were not finding as many chances as they had in the first stanza coming from the break and their manager Alfred Schreuder made a tactical change with 21 minutes remaining, as winger Sargis Adamyan came on for goalscorer and striker Jurgen Locadia.
Adamyan almost made an immediate impact moments later as he had a great opportunity to grab the home side's fourth goal but he was denied by Zingerle as the encounter finish 3-0 to the home side.
