
# Microsoft 365 Helps Improve Orgs’ Security and Compliance Posture

Published at: **2019-11-04T14:05:51+00:00**

Author: **Sergiu Gatlan**

Original: [BleepingComputer](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/microsoft-365-helps-improve-orgs-security-and-compliance-posture/)

AI-powered security and compliance guidance is rolling out to Microsoft 365 customers starting this week to help them address potential issues via guided experience.
"Starting the week of Ignite, new AI-powered recommendations in the Microsoft 365 admin center will begin rolling out to Microsoft 365 customers to help them improve their security and compliance posture," Microsoft said.
"These recommendations cover Microsoft Information Protection, Advanced Threat Protection, Self-Service Password Reset and include guidance for compliance with the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation."
The new compliance and security guidance will help Microsoft 365 customers such organizations and their administrators to detect possible areas of concern and to immediately take action to address them, preventing any potential damages they might provoke.
Microsoft is customizing all recommendations for each organization using Microsoft Graph signals to make sure that every customer gets a tailored experience.
"You can see top recommendations for your organization in the Microsoft 365 admin center’s Onboarding Hub (Setup area), and as inline suggestions in other admin center areas," Microsoft added.
Microsoft also improved Microsoft 365 security this month with the addition of 16 new Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) lower-privileged roles to help admins boost security by reducing the number of Global administrators and to enhance Microsoft 365 granular delegation capabilities.
The company recommends assigning Global administrator roles to as few people as possible to decrease business security risks stemming from this role's capability of reading and changing all administrative settings in an Azure AD orgs.
Redmond also announced the addition of new privacy and personal data protection features to Microsoft 365 in January to allow customers to respect provisions from privacy laws enacted on a worldwide basis after EU's GDPR went into effect.
That experience is currently available at compliance.microsoft.com or via the Microsoft 365 admin center, for all Microsoft 365 E5 or Information Protection and Compliance SKU subscribers.
