
# In-Form Chelsea Up To Third With Slender Victory

Published at: **2019-11-02T21:35:00+00:00**

Author: **SL International**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/international/categories/english-premier-league/english-premier-league-report-watford-v-chelsea-02-november-2019/666589)


        English Premier League
      
Result: Watford 1-2 Chelsea
Date: 02 November 2019
Venue: Vicarage Road
Chelsea moved up to third in the Premier League table after edging Watford 2-1 at Vicarage Road, with Tammy Abraham and Christian Pulisic continuing their good form.
Frank Lampard made only change from their thumping win over Burnley, with Emerson reclaiming his left-back spot at the expense of Marcos Alonso, while the Clarets also only had one switch, with Andre Gray replacing the injured Tom Cleverly.
The visitors had a bright start after going ahead in the fifth minute thanks to a superb strike by Abraham, who lobbed goalkeeper Ben Foster after latching onto Jorginho's through ball.
Chelsea almost doubled the lead in the 19th minute after Pulisic flicked on Willian's corner at the near post towards the far post but Foster produced a stunning save to keep out the effort.
Lampard's army were creating a lot of chances going forward but they were constantly denied by Foster, who notably again pushed Mason Mount's strike from the edge of the box onto the crossbar with two minutes remaining of the first stanza.
Chelsea continued to pile the pressure on Watford coming from the break and eventually made got the second goal ten minutes inside the second stanza after Pulisic struck home from close range from Abraham's cross.
The Blues had opportunities to get the third goal but were wasteful, but they conceded a penalty with ten minutes remaining after Jorginho tripped Gerard Deulofeu inside the box, with the Video Assistant Referee over-ruling the original decision by the on-field referee. The Spanish winger stepped up himself slotted home the spot-kick to reduce the deficit.
Watford almost got the equaliser from Foster, whose's header was brilliantly palmed away by Kepa as the Blues held on for three points, while Watford remain winless.
