
# Allalasandra bridge: Flyover full of potholes

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Y Maheswara Reddy**

Original: [Bangalore Mirror](https://bangaloremirror.indiatimes.com/bangalore/civic/allalasandra-bridge-flyover-full-of-potholes/articleshow/71912621.cms)

The Allalasandra flyover is more potholes than flyover and the BBMP is hardly bothered by this atrocious piece of infrastructure. For three years, BBMP seems to have been making attempts to fix it, but seems like nothing has worked. The specialty of this flyover is that it developed potholes much before it was thrown open to public in 2016. Most of the flyovers need improvement once in three or five years but Allalasandra flyover needs improvement on a yearly basis. “The BBMP has engaged a contractor to fill up potholes on the flyover three times in three years. The workers never bothered when to fill them up. I have seen them trying to fill up potholes during the monsoon,’’ said Jagadeesh G, a resident of Allalasandra. Earlier there was a railway crossing here. It was very tough for the motorists to go towards Yelahanka or come to the city from Yelahanka whenever the gate at the level cross was closed. The BBMP and railways have constructed this flyover with an investment of Rs 34 crore but they forgot about quality in asphalting work. As one side of the asphalting is done, the other has already developed craters. “We want the BBMP to build a concrete surface on the flyover to avoid potholes,’’ said Jagadeesh. H Venkatesh, a resident of Judicial Layout, has said the substandard work was the main reason for the poor condition of the flyover. “All the money allocated for the construction of the flyover was probably not used for that purpose,’’ said Venkatesh. A BBMP engineer under the condition of anonymity admitted that maintenance of the flyover was difficult. “Filling the gaps at expansion joints needs specialisation. We are trying our best. We have filled up the potholes recently but the potholes continue to reappear,’’ he said. When contacted, Yelahanka Satellite Town ward corporator M Satish said that he had instructed the BBMP engineer to fill up the potholes.
