
# Toyota strengthens lineup with the new Vios XLE

Published at: **2019-11-07T15:19:21+00:00**

Author: **https://www.facebook.com/BusinessMirror/**

Original: [BusinessMirror](https://businessmirror.com.ph/2019/11/07/toyota-strengthens-lineup-with-the-new-vios-xle/)

Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
Toyota Motor Philippines (TMP) strengthens its lead in the subcompact segment by introducing the newest variant of its best-selling model, the Vios XLE. Starting at PHP 791,000 with exciting bundle offers worth as much as 100k, the new locally-made Vios XLE provides customers with more vehicle customization and payment options.
Retail sales begin this weekend, November 8-9, at the Vios XLEnt Weekend Launch in all 70 Toyota dealerships nationwide. Interested customers may reserve through the official website link here.
The Vios XLE is designed as a value for money variant that offers the best possible Vios specs for its affordable SRP.  It comes with driver, passenger, and knee airbags, 4-Beam Halogen headlamps, 15-inch alloy wheels, and a 7-inch touchscreen display audio with WebLink for iOS / Android. The Vios XLE is also equipped with power door locks, power side view mirrors, and the standard Vehicle Stability Control plus Hill Start Assist.
“Toyota is introducing the Vios XLE to give our customers the freedom of choice on how they want to purchase and modify their car,” said TMP First Vice President Ms. Cristina Arevalo. “This new variant combines affordability and style without sacrificing the everyday practicality that the Vios has always been known for. We call this the XLE Advantage.”
The XLE Advantage offers prospective car-buyers two attractive bundles: Option A is an outright cash discount of PHP 35,000 plus accessory options worth PHP 40,000; while Option B is the sought-after Zero Downpayment financing scheme. Both options come with the 5-year Extended Warranty and FREE Preventive Maintenance Service (PMS) up to 20,000kms to further make the Toyota car ownership experience more affordable.
For the 40k-worth of accessory options, customers can choose to modify their Vios units with an array of exciting interior and exterior add-ons. They can mix-and-match the Vios accessory packages, including but not limited to: Daytime Running Lights (DRL), LED fog lamps, Back Camera, aero kits, and select TRD pieces with 17-inch alloy wheels.
For reference, here is the current Vios lineup updated as of November 6, 2019:
Head to any of Toyota’s 70 dealerships nationwide to know more about the new Vios XLE and avail special deals on other Vios variants. For the latest Toyota news and information, visit TMP’s official website at www.toyota.com.ph and follow the official Facebook page at www.fb.com/ToyotaMotorPhilippines. 
