
# EICMA 2019: 2020 Kawasaki Z900 showcased

Published at: **2019-11-06T13:00:07+00:00**

Author: **Aditya Jadhav  **

Original: [OVERDRIVE](http://overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/eicma-2019-2020-kawasaki-z900-showcased/)

Kawasaki Z900 has been updated to the 2020 iteration and has been showcased at the ongoing EICMA 2019. The naked motorcycle now sports tweaked styling and updated electronic suit.
The new motorcycle now sports an angrier fascia which is in line with the Sumogi design philosophy that we recently saw on the Kawasaki Z H2 - showcased at the Tokyo Motor Show 2019. The headlamp assembly is all LED and gets fangs like LEDs on the sides as a part of the design. The motorcycle also gets four new colour schemes to chose from - black, grey, metallic black with lime green, black with pearl white, and a combination of two shades of black.
Along with the styling upgrade, the dashboard gets a new 4.3-inch TFT screen for instrumentation. The new screen features smartphone connectivity via 'RIDEOLOGYTHE APP'. The application logs the riding data that the user/rider can access post-ride.
Mechanically the motorcycle stays the same but the 948cc, inline-four engine is now Euro 5 compliant. The power is rated at 124PS at 9,500rpm and 98.6Nm at 7,700rpm. The motorcycles trellis frame has undergone tweaks, so has the suspension setup. 2020 Z900 uses upside-down forks in the front and the rear gets a horizontally mounted mono-shock absorber.
Currently, the Z900 on sale in India features only ABS (Antilock Braking System). On the flip side, the 2020 Z900 hosts a bunch load of electronic aids such as three-level of traction control, and two riding modes - Low and Full. On 'Low' riding mode the power is limited to 55 per cent.
Other cycle parts include twin 300mm disc set up in the front and a 250mm disc setup in the rear. The motorcycle now uses Dunlop Sportmax Roadsport 2 tires.
The dimensions of the new Z900 have been changed as well. The wheelbase is now 1,455mm which is an increase of 5mm and the motorcycle is now taller and longer as well - 1,080mm and 2,070mm respectively. The motorcycle tips the scale at 210kgs which is same as the current ongoing.
2020 Z900 is expected to be launched in India by early next year. When launched, the new Z900 could ask a premium of Rs 1 lakh over the current motorcycle's pricing that retails at Rs 7.69 lakh ex-showroom India. When launched, the Z900 will rival the KTM 790 Duke, Suzuki GSX S750 and the updated Triumph Street Triple RS 765.

        EICMA 2019: 2020 Suzuki V-Strom 1050 and 1050 XT – Image Gallery
      

        EICMA 2019: A closer look at the India-bound KTM 390 Adventure – Image Gallery
      

        EICMA 2019: Aprilia RS660 supersport unveiled
      

        EICMA 2019: Brand-new KTM 890 Duke R revealed
      

        EICMA 2019: Harley-Davidson's first ever adventure tourer and streetfighter have broken cover!
      

        EICMA 2019: Hero Xtreme 1.R Concept motorcycle showcased
      
