
# BBC to block Mary Lou McDonald's ard fheis speech

Published at: **2019-11-01T01:00:00+00:00**

Author: **JOHN MANLEY**

Original: [The Irish News](http://www.irishnews.com/news/northernirelandnews/2019/11/01/news/bbc-to-block-mary-lou-mcdonald-s-ard-fheis-speech-1753468/)

MARY Lou McDonald's forthcoming ard fheis speech will not be screened live by BBC Northern Ireland due to the broadcaster's electoral guidelines.
It is the second time in little over three years that a Sinn Féin leader's key note address has fallen victim to unfortunate timing in the midst of an election campaign.
The British state broadcaster must adhere to strict rules that are designed to ensure equal coverage for parties during an election campaign.
The BBC has said it will cover the Sinn Féin party conference at Derry's Millennium Forum on November 15 and 16 but will not beam the leader's speech live on BBC2 as normal.
In 2016, when the party timed its Dublin ard fheis to coincide with the 100th anniversary of the Easter Rising, the event fell 12 days before polling day in the Stormont election, leading to a blackout of Gerry Adams's speech by the BBC.
RTÉ's coverage of the conference is unaffected, even north of the border, and the BBC has signalled that it will make Mrs McDonald's speech available on its i-Player streaming service, though it is unclear when.
"BBC News NI will cover the Sinn Féin ard fheis in line with BBC election guidelines," a BBC spokeswoman said.
"We will bring audiences news from the event where appropriate and make the leader’s speech available."
An RTÉ spokeswoman said the matter had been considered by broadcaster's election steering group whereupon it was decided to cover the ard fheis "in the conventional way, including live broadcast of the leader’s speech".
"There will be a number of weeks between the Sinn Féin leaders’ speech and polling day in the UK general election and RTÉ coverage of the elections in Northern Ireland will take account of coverage of the ard fheis in achieving fairness to other parties contesting the election," the spokeswoman said.
Subscribe to our most read headlines in the evening newsletter
