
# EK residents could be forced to pay for parking outside their own home

Published at: **2019-11-07T21:19:31+00:00**

Author: **Fraser N Wilson, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/fraser-n-wilson/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/ek-residents-could-forced-pay-20836678)

Plans to charge residents for parking outside their own homes have moved a step closer.
South Lanarkshire Council’s roads safety forum have endorsed recommendations to introduce a £10 charge to issue permits in Residents’ Parking Permit Zones (RPPZs).
The recommendations will now be put to the community and enterprise resources committee on November 12 for final approval.
Engineering manager Colin Park put forward the research into the RPPZ policy to the roads safety forum last Wednesday.
He said: “The view of the forum was that RPPZs were an effective demand management approach to assist in minimising the impact on residents in areas of competing parking demand.
“RPPZs should be seen as an additional approach that officers can use to complement existing approaches.”
Councillors previously agreed to the principal of charging in order to cover the cost of issuing permits and council officers have recommended option one – a flat £10 per permit scheme.
Currently, up to four permits are issued per household in each RPPZ with around 6900 issued to residents and businesses at a cost of almost £50,000.
After the council’s recent climate change declaration, Rutherglen Central and North councillor Janine Calikes was concerned that allowing four permits per household could send the wrong message.
She said the council was “not addressing the issue” and that people may have to “justify if they need more than two”.
Mr Park said that residents “took advantage” of the current system and that each household “didn’t have four cars each”.
He also suggested future schemes could see free permits issued for electric or hybrid vehicles, and a sliding scale could be used for diesel and petrol cars.
It is estimated that a charge could reduce the number of permits issued by one third.
The forum had also previously enquired about using the surplus from a permit charge to cover the cost of additional parking attendants however a £10 charge would only generate £50,000 and more expensive options may not be accepted as “reasonable” by residents.
