
# Barcelona’s predicted lineup vs Levante: A fight to stay on top

Published at: **2019-11-02T05:19:25+00:00**

Author: **Nishant Narayanan**

Original: [Everything Barca](https://everythingbarca.com/2019/11/02/barcelonas-predicted-lineup-vs-levante-fight-stay-top/)

After their brilliant performance against Real Valladolid earlier this week, Barcelona head to the Ciutat de València Stadium on Saturday evening for their match against Levante. The Catalans have not been without their issues this season, but look to continue their winning form.
The biggest worry for Levante is the genius leading the way for Barcelona, Lionel Messi. The 32-year-old was back at his best against Valladolid with two goals and two assists to his name in a comfortable 5-1 victory.
Coach Ernesto Valverde has named the following 19 man squad:
Ter Stegen, N. Semedo, Piqué, I. Rakitic, Sergio, Todibo, Arthur, Suárez, Messi, Neto, Lenglet, Griezmann, Jordi Alba, S. Roberto, F. De Jong, Vidal, Junior, C. Pérez and Ansu Fati.
Left out are Dembélé, M. Wague and Aleñá with Umtiti still missing due to injury. With that being said, let us take a look at the likely eleven for the match.
Marc Andre Ter Stegen is undisputedly the number one choice between the sticks for the Spanish champions and will certainly get picked over newcomer Neto once again. The 27-year-old has been a savior countless times for Barcelona, this season in particular, and is enjoying a stunning run of form.  Ter Stegen looks to display his incredible talent domestically to continue challenging for the spot internationally with Manuel Neuer still being preferred by coach Joachim Loew for the German National Team.
Jordi Alba did suffer a knock in Tuesday’s clash with Valladolid and had asked to be replaced in the latest stages but he is none the less expected to overcome the issue and be a starter for this match. The former Valencia full-back is still regarded as one of the best left-backs in the world and will look to continue his great form in his eighth season with Barcelona. Summer arrival Junior Firpo will remain on the bench as an option for Valverde, in case Alba needs to be rested or replaced.
Lenglet’s midweek performance was one of his best in a Barca shirt. He scored his first goal of the season, with the same being his second ever for the Catalans. The French international looks to claim his starting place next to Pique against club and country teammate Umtiti, who continues to struggle with knee injuries.
Gerard Pique will continue his presence at the back with the Spanish champions struggling to find a permanent replacement for retired Carles Puyol. The 32-year-old is past his prime but with a lack of defenders in the squad and Umtiti still out with injuries, Pique will continue his appearance.
While Ernesto Valverde has used both Sergio Roberto and Semedo at the right-back position for Barcelona,  Semedo’s explosiveness while going forward and defensive work rate, along with his contributions in the 5-1 win in midweek makes him the likely player to start on the right side of the defense. It wouldn’t be surprising, however, if Valverde decides to play Roberto ahead of the Portuguese.
Busquets is arguably one of the best defensive midfielders in the world and has consistently been the center of Barca’s midfield around which the team is built. His calm and controlled nature allows Barcelona to play their possession football. Busquets being among the greatest of the modern game will look to influence the game like no other.
Being one of the summers most exciting signings, De Jong has been performing as expected. Valverde has picked the Dutchman more than any other player this season and with De Jong’s consistent play and flawless integration with the Barça style, it will be no surprise to find him play on the left side of the midfield.
Arthur was rested against Valladolid, but the Brazilian looks to return to the starting lineup. The 23-year-old will be looking to continue to display his brilliant talent and importance in the starting line-up. With Barcelona’s depth at central midfield with the likes of Arturo Vidal and Ivan Rakitic, Valverde will have many tactical options to tackle Levante.
Being one of the biggest transfer stories of the summer, Griezmann looks to make his mark yet again for Barcelona with the ex Athletico Madrid forward scoring four and assisting three in his eight starts for the Catalans. Greizmann came off the bench against Valladolid but is expected to start ahead of teen sensation Ansu Fati
Suarez continues his battle with ongoing transfer rumors and criticism as the aging 32-year-old poacher struggles to find his former best-striker-in-the world-status. However, the Uruguayan International continues to silence his critics as the Barca ace has scored six goals in seven games. He is currently Barcelona’s top scorer and looks to fight for his spot.
The G.O.A.T has returned? Messi had a struggling start to the current campaign due to injury but has slowly and surely returned to his best self. He has started four La Liga games for the Spanish champions and scored four goals while creating 4 more. At age 32, Messi continues to dominate in the world of football, proving that there is no one else like him to play the game and most likely, there never will be.
What are your predictions for the La Liga clash on Saturday Evening?
