
# You can now match Microsoft Launcher's theme with your phone's theme

Published at: **2019-11-07T14:42:35+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/microsoft-launcher-now-supports-system-theme-settings?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Windows Central
      
Microsoft Launcher has a new update, bringing support for the launcher's theme to match the theme of your phone (via MSPU). The update brings Microsoft launcher to version 5.10, makes dark mode darker, and brings several bug fixes.
The ability to have Microsoft Launcher's theme match your phone's theme was rolled out to beta testers last month but is now generally available. To use this feature, a phone has to run Android 9.0 or later. Here's the full changelog:

        All of Microsoft's iOS and Android beta programs, and how to sign up
      
The update is relatively small, but being able to match your launcher and your phone's settings removes one step for every time you switch your phone's theme.
This launcher for Android features a clean design and integrates with Microsoft services, including Microsoft To-Do, Office 365, and Cortana.

        Affordable wireless T-Mobile Connect includes unlimited talk, text, and 5G access for $15/month During the first Un-Carrier event for the New T-Mobile, the company announced a $15/month “T-Mobile Connect” plan that includes unlimited talk, text, 5G access, and a high-speed data allotment that gets bigger each year.
      

        5G for all T-Mobile’s 5G network is launching on December 6 for 200 million people The “new T-Mobile” is launching its 5G network on December 6, and when it does, 200 million people will have access to the network from Day One.
      

        Better battery life Samsung Galaxy S11e leak hints at significantly improved battery life A new leak suggests the Galaxy S11e will be equipped with a much bigger battery than the Galaxy S10e.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
