
# Boris Johnson says he will ban fracking in screeching Tory u-turn

Published at: **2019-11-02T00:01:00+00:00**

Author: **Ben Glaze, https://www.facebook.com/MirrorPolitics**

Original: [mirror](https://www.mirror.co.uk/news/politics/boris-johnson-says-ban-fracking-20790576)

FRACKING was last night banned in Britain after a series of earthquakes, in a screeching U-turn by Boris Johnson .
The Government scrapped its support for the controversial method of extracting shale gas, amid mounting public fears over safety.
The announcement came less than six weeks before the general election , where voters could have staged a revolt against the process in key Tory seats and target constituencies.
The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said fracking - hydraulic fracturing - was “paused unless and until further evidence is provided that it can be carried out safely here”.
The move followed an earthquake in Lancashire measuring 2.9 on the Richter scale in August.
The tremor rattled windows and doors and may have damaged buildings.
 
Operations at fracking firm Cuadrilla’s site at Preston New Road, Lancs, were suspended and never restarted.
Following a probe, industry watchdog the Oil and Gas Authority said it could not guarantee further fracking “would meet the Government’s policy aims of ensuring it is safe, sustainable and of minimal disturbance to those living and working nearby”.
Business Secretary Andrea Leadsom said: “Whilst acknowledging the huge potential of UK shale gas to provide a bridge to a zero-carbon future, I’ve also always been clear that shale gas exploration in the UK must be carried out safely.
“In the UK, we have been led by the best available scientific evidence, and closely regulated by the Oil and Gas Authority, one of the best regulators in the world.
“After reviewing the OGA’s report into recent seismic activity at Preston New Road, it is clear that we cannot rule out future unacceptable impacts on the local community.
“For this reason, I have concluded that we should put a moratorium on fracking in England with immediate effect.”
The announcement effectively marks the end of fracking in the UK.
 
Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping in pressurised water, sand and chemicals into shale, creating fractures that allow gas to escape to the surface.
Supporters said extracting the gas would provide a cheap, cleaner alternative to conventional gas and oil.
It would also decrease the UK’s reliance on foreign gas imports - and unleash a jobs bonanza in parts of Britain which would benefit from economic boosts.
Three years ago the Government expected 20 wells to be sunk by next year - but there have been only three, in Lancashire.
Critics launched a series of high-profile protests demonstrating against the industry.
Yet Boris Johnson was big supporter and wrote a string of newspaper articles backing the fledgling sector.
In December 2012, he said: “It is glorious news for humanity. It doesn’t need the subsidy of wind power. I don’t know whether it will work in Britain, but we should get fracking right away.”
A year later, he wrote: “We must stop pussy-footing around, and get fracking. Even if we have hundreds of fracking pads, they are nothing like as ugly as windmills, and they can be dismantled as soon as the gas is extracted.”
Nine months later, he insisted: “Give the British people their mineral rights, and get fracking at last.”
However, he signalled the death knell for the industry at Prime Minister’s Questions on Wednesday when he admitted there were “very considerable anxieties that are legitimately being raised about the earthquakes that have followed various fracking attempts in the UK”.
Welcoming the ban announced last night, Greenpeace’s Rebecca Newsom said: “It’s been clear for some time that the Government’s big bet on fracking is bust.
“Opening up a new fossil fuel industry in this climate emergency was always an awful idea, and it’s only seemed worse as the industry has lurched from mishap to disaster.
“Grassroots activists across the country deserve huge credit.
“If the Government reads the science and listens to the strong public opposition then fracking has no future.”
The Campaign for the Protection of Rural England's deputy chief executive Tom Fyans said: “This is a fantastic win for local democracy and everyone who cares about protecting the countryside from climate catastrophe and mass industrialisation.
