
# Scots miracle tot catches eye of model scouts with top kids clothing brand

Published at: **2019-11-04T04:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Kathleen Speirs**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/scottish-news/miracle-tot-half-smile-wins-20803928)

A miracle tot with “half a smile” is catching the attention of model scouts from top clothing brands.
Logan Stewart has defied medics since he was diagnosed with charge syndrome, a rare genetic condition, as a newborn baby.
Three open-heart surgeries haven’t stopped the 16-month-old.
Kids with charge syndrome can suffer with varying symptoms.
His mum Chelsea, 27, said: “Logan is deaf, visually impaired and has a heart condition.
He has facial palsy on one side of his face – it’s as if he has half a smile.”
 
But Logan doesn’t let things get him down and has been asked to become a brand ambassador for children’s clothing store, Henry’s Wardrobe UK.
Chelsea said: “The fact that the brand want him is amazing. Logan is gorgeous and no different from any other wee boy.”
Logan’s dad, Danny, 29, said: “For a wee boy who’s been through so much, nobody would know. Logan’s so happy, brave and full of fun.
“He’s such a fighter, he comes out of hospital treatment with his arms in the air and a smile on his face. We’re so proud.”
Danny and Chelsea, who also have two-month-old daughter Isla, created a community of charge syndrome families after using Instagram to tell of Logan’s fight with the life-threatening condition.
 
Chelsea said: “Charge syndrome is so rare that doctors don’t know much about it. We don’t know what’s coming. It’s been horrific.
“In Scotland, we know of one other child in Aberdeen with charge, so it’s great having the support from all over.
Dr Paul Hart, of disability charity Sense Scotland, said: “It’s great the Stewarts’ Instagram account has touched so many lives and Logan is set to become a star.”
