
# Naoya Inoue vs. Nonito Donaire preview: Why ‘The Monster’ is the world’s most exciting boxer

Published at: **2019-11-06T16:00:00+00:00**

Author: **Mookie Alexander**

Original: [Bloody Elbow](https://www.bloodyelbow.com/2019/11/6/20950865/naoya-inoue-vs-nonito-donaire-preview-the-monster-boxing-dazn)

On Thursday, November 7th, the Saitama Super Arena is expected to host a capacity crowd for one of Japan’s biggest combat sports stars, and someone whom I consider the most exciting boxer at the moment.
Naoya Inoue (18-0, 16 KOs) has accomplished so much in just 18 professional fights. Since turning pro in 2012, he has won major world titles at light-flyweight (108 lbs), super-flyweight (115 lbs), and currently has the IBF title at bantamweight (118 lbs). If he beats the legendary Nonito Donaire (40-5, 26 KOs) in the World Boxing Super Series final, he’ll become a unified WBA and IBF champion in a loaded division.
That Inoue is a consensus top-10 pound-for-pound boxer right now is already impressive and should grab your attention. What makes “The Monster” so captivating is, to put it bluntly, his uniquely violent style of fighting.
Inoue combines a remarkable workrate with terrifying pressure, lightning-fast speed, timing, and accuracy, a hatred for livers, and obscene power for someone who competes at the bottom-rung of boxing’s many weight classes. He’s a bantamweight with the punching power of a light heavyweight, and as he’s gone up in weight, he’s become an even more preposterously powerful pugilist.
And while you may be one to immediately speculate that Inoue isn’t fighting good opposition, my retort is that you are completely incorrect.
In his debut at bantamweight, Inoue took on Jamie McDonnell, who had never been stopped before and was riding an 18-fight winning streak. McDonnell didn’t last a round.
