
# We're About to Witness a Rare Transit of Mercury Next Week. Here's How to Watch

Published at: **2019-11-05T00:00:00+00:00**

Author: **DAVID DICKSON, UNIVERSE TODAY**

Original: [ScienceAlert](https://www.sciencealert.com/here-s-how-to-catch-mercury-s-2019-transit-across-the-sun)

One of the finest spectacles in astronomy is to witness the passage of one object in front of another. This can transpire as an eclipse, an occultation, or a rare event known as a planetary transit.
We get a shot at seeing just such a singular event next Monday on 11 November, as a transit of Mercury across the face of Sol occurs for the last time this decade.
The event and who will see it: the duration for the transit is a leisurely 5 hours, 28 minutes and 47 seconds. The event is well placed for South America and eastern North America, which will witness the transit in its entirety. Western North America will seeing the transit in progress at sunrise, while Africa, Europe and the Middle East will see the transit underway at sunset.
Keep in mind, watching the transit low to the horizon near sunrise or sunset will also give photographers a chance to catch the Sun, plus the 'shadow' outline of Mercury along with the silhouettes of foreground objects on the horizon, making for a very photogenic spectacle. Only Australia and eastern/central Asia will miss out.
Our handy graphic gives transit times in UT (Universal Time):

        Weather prospects
      
First, the good news: you don't need a perfectly clear sky to see the transit: just a good view of the Sun. As of writing this, weather prospects for the US Eastern Seaboard are a bit touch and go. We should have a better grab on just what the skies are going to do come Monday going into this weekend.
Observing a transit of Mercury is a unique event, requiring adequate preparations versus an eclipse or transit of Venus. Mercury is tiny: during the transit, the disk of the innermost world will appear only 10" across.
This means you'll need magnification coupled with solar observing safety protocols, the same precautions as you'd take to observe a partial solar eclipse; simple pinhole projection or solar eclipse glasses won't cut it.
If you have a hydrogen-alpha telescope or a telescope equipped with a white-light filter for solar observing, you're all set. One method we've used is to construct a binocular filter mask, using a tea box and a pair of repurposed eclipse glasses:
