
# Rutherglen barbers to give haircuts for 24 HOURS straight - and it's for a good cause

Published at: **2019-11-06T15:42:19+00:00**

Author: **Marc McLean, https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/authors/marc-mclean/**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/local-news/rutherglen-barbers-give-haircuts-24-20825865)

Two brilliant barbers will stage a 24-hour haircut marathon in Rutherglen this month as a show of support for a teenage customer.
Jordan Rae and fellow barber David Murray will set a town record by giving gents’ haircuts all day and all night in their Slicks Barber Shop on Duke’s Road.
The guys have organised the special event to raise funds for the Beatson Cancer Charity - after learning that regular customer Jack Flexney, 17, was diagnosed as having two tumours in his head.
The barbers will welcome dozens of clients into the shop and, instead of pocketing payment, they’ll ask for donations to the Beatson Cancer Charity.
David, 24, from Burnside, said: “The whole fundraising event has been inspired by a 17-year-old client of ours. He recently had a brain scan and two tumours were discovered in his head.
“He’s a young guy we’re friendly with and we hadn’t seen him in the shop for three months or so. We learned through Facebook about what he’s going through and so we wanted to show our support for him with a fundraiser for the Beatson.”
Shop manager Jordan and stylist David will essentially work for free from 9am on Monday, November 18 until 9am on Tuesday, November 19.
They have each organised 29 haircut appointments over that time period, allocating 40 minute slots to each one.
Having learned about their teenage customer’s diagnosis, they quickly came up with the fundraising idea to back the charity that is supporting him.
David said: “It’s not just about haircut after haircut, we’ll be making it a fun night, and we’re having cakes made for it too.
“The word is spreading pretty quickly and around 50 of the haircut appointments have been taken already. The support has been fantastic and we’re looking for to a great night..”
The Beatson, based within Gartnavel Hospital, is an internationally-renowned cancer centre and is the busiest in the UK in terms of clinical activity and patient numbers.
Gartnavel Hospital, delivers all of the radiotherapy and much of the chemotherapy to the population of the West of Scotland, with a catchment area of 2.5 million people, which is around 50 percent of Scotland’s population.
