
# TK Maxx insider shares best ways to find deals on your next shopping trip

Published at: **2019-11-02T14:29:40+00:00**

Author: **Kali Lindsay**

Original: [dailyrecord](https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/news/business-consumer/tk-maxx-insider-shares-best-20794391)

Walking into TK Maxx , you know you're going to walk out with some class clobber without breaking the bank.
Cut down prices are a given, but you can really grab a bargain when the sale is on, with reductions of almost 70 per cent across all departments.
That includes designer label clothes, kitchenware, pillows, lamps and the random trinket or six, according to Chronicle Live .
But where do you even start?
You never know whether it'll be a dream or nightmare shopping trip deep diving through the jumble sale.
Here is a list of tips and tricks for getting the best out of your experience.
They are less visited than city centre branches meaning there could very well be a better selection of designer pieces. And stores with parking are more likely to have a better stock of furniture and larger items as customers will be able to park outside.
They get new stock every day, but according to one TK Maxx employee, mornings are the optimum time to bag the best bargains, with Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday mornings when shoppers should head to the store.
The earlier you go, the more chance it will be untouched by aggressive bargain hunters. The later you leave it, the more crazy and jumbled up it gets. Novices should avoid 3pm on a Saturday unless you want to be permanently traumatised by the experience.
Actually, this should probably be the cardinal rule of shopping at TK Maxx. It’s a universal fact that all kids hate TK Maxx and they won’t hesitate in letting you know. And the low level clothes rails are perfect for little hands to grab products before retreating back into the pushchair without you suspecting a thing.
 
What’s available is out on the shop floor. Everything delivered goes straight out, so what you see is what they have.
Always. That way you can fling in what you find without having to return to the rails and find the item you spotted while you were putting back another has been snaffled by that woman heading to the checkout. Also means you can put your handbag in the bottom instead of lugging it around.
It can get warm in there. Really warm. There’s a thing known as “TK Maxx Crash and Burn.” Avoid this by packing a bottle of water and snack to keep your energy up while rifling the rails.
Shopping for classic wardrobe staples is a good tactic. Trend-led items will quickly go out of style, so spend wisely and opt for the classic LBD rather than the premium label neon ra-ra skirt.
The red clearance sale stickers eventually turn to a yellow sticker. Anything that has a yellow label will be marked down significantly until it is 20p - the lowest mark down point. However, few items actually get to being reduced so low as they are usually snapped up before then.
The Gold Label range offers brands such as Versace, Stella McCartney, Moschino, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors - you name it. And it’s not all last seasons stock either.
Have exceptionally large or small feet? Wear a smaller or bigger than average dress size? You might have more luck than most, as often the less sought after sizes are in abundance at TK Maxx. It’s not always the case - but definitely worth a visit if you fall outside of the general average.
If you’ve ever been in one, this figure is totally believable. And in addition to this, around 10,000 new items are delivered to every store every week. Which means you can never be completely sure what you will (quite literally) stumble across on your visit.
The store does segment items by size and type, items are in no particular order and you need to be prepared to search through so much stock. Along with everyone else in there. It can be pretty stressful. You need to be in the right frame of mind and ready to trawl.
The wide variety of suppliers means a wider variation in sizes. A size 12 in one brand might fit like a glove, but in another a bigger size can fit better.
You might end up with several trips to the fitting rooms. Leave the hook and eye shirt at home and opt for something you can whip on and off.
An investigation in 2013 found many items in TK Maxx were actually own-brand products – using a names such as Arabella and Addison, Kenar, Amaryllis Amphora and Frederik Anderson of Copenhagen. This doesn’t mean it isn’t a bargain, but you might not be buying the designer product you think you are.
Most people go for the clothes, but do stop by the homeware department while you’re there.
If you pick something up from the homeware bit, you can be pretty much guaranteed you wont see it in anyone else’s home. The range is so incredibly quirky, you’ll struggle to find such a unique selection of items anywhere else.
Make sure you browse the beauty section too. You can get some high end skin products and make up for a fraction of the price. We’ve even spotted Urban Decay palettes, Bare Minerals foundation, plus Estee Lauder and Clarins skincare products. They aren’t easy to spot but have a good rummage.
Sometimes the original retail price may be slightly over exaggerated, as revealed by an investigation by Dispatches. Doesn’t mean it’s not a bargain, it just might not be as big a bargain as you think. However it’s worth noting the store does dispute this saying RRPs are provided by suppliers, who must provide evidence of the RRP.
At prices much cheaper than other high street health food stores, TK Maxx stocks all sorts of health food products, including a large Diet Food range, products from Extreme Health USA. Some even sell protein powder too.
If you find a piece you like but think you’ll pick it up on another visit, think again. Chances are someone else will pick it up before you return. Because most stock is extremely limited, you need to be quick or you’ll miss out.
As they buy throughout the year rather than on a seasonal schedule, the rapidly changing assortments create the famed treasure hunt shopping experience. They don’t hold replenishment products in the stock room, and no-one knows whether any more of a certain item will be on the next delivery.
Chances are, if you ask a staff member or even a store manager what is expected in the next delivery, they won’t know. It’s all one big chaotic mystery.
TK Maxx also stocks reduced price bridal gowns. There’s also a good range of bridesmaid’s dresses and prom gowns too.
Common misconception - it only buys overstock and irregular items. Or last seasons undesirables. But turns out they actually buy direct from vendors.
If you shop at TK Maxx regularly, be sure to pick up a Treasure card. Every time you make a purchase and swipe the card, you earn a chance to claim a reward.
To join, pick up a Treasure card in store and register it online. By having a Treasure card, you will also be the first to hear about in-store VIP experiences and flash events
Know someone who works there? Now is the time to remind them of the occasion you helped them move/gave them a lift/fed their goldfish.
The general returns policy is a pretty decent 28 days - just make sure you keep the labels on and bring your receipt. You can even return items bought online in store for free.
However, Items classified as “pre-loved” - ie not sold in ‘new’ condition - may already have signs of wear and use (for example small marks, scratches) or even stains upon purchase. You can return these no problem, but you need to return them with the original packaging (e.g. boxes) and the tags must still be attached.
The original authenticity stickers and authenticity cards must also be returned and if any of the stickers or tags are tampered with, you won’t be able to return them. It’s worth noting that if you purchase a pre-loved watch you agree to waive your right under the returns policy to return it by post.
 
In the US, the brand is called TJ Maxx, however to avoid confusion with discount department store TJ Hughes, the name was modified for European customers.
There are now permanent donation points in every TK Maxx store so ig deep into your wardrobe and find those gems you no longer need. Then fill a bag with your pre-loved quality clothes, accessories and homeware and bring it to your local TK Maxx store. All quality items received will be sold in Cancer Research UK shops nationwide. All the money raised goes to Cancer Research UK Kids &amp;amp; Teens which raises money to help beat cancers affecting children and young people sooner.
It’s not just in-store shoppers who can take advantage of the events. You can browse in your pyjamas at one of their online flash sales. You can register for them here:  www.tkmaxx.com/uk/en/flashevents
If the thought of fighting the masses in store is enough to keep you indoors, you can shop online too.
Standard delivery is £3.99 (or free if you spend £75 or more online), or £5.99 for next day. You can also use click and collect too.
Sign up to their emails and they’ll send you updates about fresh new product roll outs and stuff at stores near you. They won’t be able to mention the specific designer names, but you can pretty much safely assume a new shipment of merchandise just came in, and it’s worth checking out your local store.
Some TK Maxx’s are hailed as the ultimate bargain store. Others, not so much. Definitely look online and read some reviews to scout out the highly rated branches near you.
