
# The U.S. is launching a national security probe into TikTok

Published at: **2019-11-01T16:49:09+00:00**

Author: ****

Original: [Android Central](https://www.androidcentral.com/us-launching-national-security-probe-tiktok?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+androidcentral+%28Android+Central%29)


        Source: Android Central
      
The U.S. government is seemingly growing more suspicions of Chinese companies, as it has put yet another Chinese tech giant in its crosshairs, citing national security concerns: TikTok. The social media app has become increasingly more popular among teens and tweens in the U.S., though you'd never know the company behind it, ByteDance, is actually Chinese.
And that heritage is starting to land the 'new Vine' in trouble, as the Trump administration launches a probe into the firm's $1 billion acquisition of Musical.ly, a full two years after the transaction took place in November 2017, reports Reuters.
Alongside this, various U.S. officials have raised questions about claims of content censorship by TikTok, some of which our Russell Holly discussed earlier this week. Concerns about where American users' data is stored also fuelled calls for an investigation in recent weeks. TikTok says the data is stored within the U.S. itself. But critics of the company have pointed out that its parent company, ByteDance, abides by Chinese law, which some say requires companies to enable the Chinese government to have full access to data if so requested — a charge that's also been leveled against Huawei in its ongoing struggles with the U.S. government.
TikTok for its part is, as expected, pledging full support to any investigations:
The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) typically reviews such deals, and TikTok did not seek approval from the organization before finalizing its acquisition of Musical.ly, giving the CFIUS grounds for impaneling and inquiry into the agreement now. The specifics of CFIUS' investigations are not known at this moment, but the report suggests the regulator is in talks with TikTok over how it can avoid having to undo its purchase.

        Is TikTok safe for kids?
      

        Still alive Microsoft is building Cortana into Outlook with smart AI features Cortana is expanding into new areas as Microsoft beings integrating the virtual assistant into Microsoft 365, starting with Outlook. Users inside Outlook will soon be able to take advantage of Cortana and allow it to work for you by organizing your calendar, emails, and more.
      

        Megapixels Samsung Galaxy S11 tipped to come with an "improved" 108MP camera sensor If Chinese tipster Ice Universe is to be believed, Samsung Galaxy S11 will feature a new 108MP camera sensor.
      

        Office Hub Microsoft announces new all-in-one Office Mobile app for Android A new Office app for Android and iOS is on the way that combines the power of Word, Excel, and PowerPoint into one convenient app instead of three.
      

        Who needs a wallet? Keep your wallet put away and pay with your Wear OS watch Ready to start paying for your coffee with just your watch? Here are all the Wear OS devices that support Google Pay!
      
