
# Middendorp Confirms New Addition To Chiefs Squad

Published at: **2019-11-07T17:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Mazola Molefe**

Original: [Soccer Laduma](https://www.soccerladuma.co.za/news/articles/local/categories/kaizer-chiefs/petersen-re-joins-chiefs/666995)

Kaizer Chiefs have managed to boost their squad for the season with a goalkeeper even if it is outside the transfer window.
Coach Ernst Middendorp confirmed on Thursday during the pre-Soweto Derby press conference that young Brylon Petersen has rejoined Amakhosi on a free transfer having left the club initially at the end of the previous campaign. 

        Read: Middendorp: I Am Not Dreaming 
      
“We have to be covered just in terms of loading in this department and one or two players have a little bit of an injury. We have to make sure that when a yellow card or an injury is coming or something like that we don’t have to do a job with a 16-year-old,” the coach explained. 
Middendorp was referring to Bontle Molefe, who isn’t quite ready for the big time yet and remains an understudy to Itumeleng Khune, Daniel Akpeyi and Bruce Bvuma. 
At the moment, Khune is still nursing a groin injury, leaving Chiefs with Akpeyi, Bvuma and the 16-year-old in the goalkeeping department. 
“He (Petersen) is part of the squad, part of the team – for me. We had a clear understanding to get Bontle Molefe a little bit closer, but he is still in school and you realise that he has exams here and there and then he’s not at the training ground. That’s not good. You have to align your direction and it was the easiest way and he (Petersen) was on the market and didn’t sign anywhere. He knows us and we know him,” Middendorp said.

        Read: Rulani: If You Look At The Numbers   
      
