
# Protesters call for a general strike on Monday

Published at: **2019-11-03T22:30:00+00:00**

Author: **Sally Farhat**

Original: [An-Nahar](https://en.annahar.com/article/1061655-protesters-call-for-a-general-strike-on-monday)

BEIRUT: Demonstrators rushed back to the streets on Sunday and called for a general strike on Monday.While schools will be closed and banks will be tentatively open, most universities did not issue any statement, meaning classes are still set to resume on Monday. “I’ve been protesting since day one and I’m glad to see the Lebanese coming back on track and revolting again,” Tatiana Sibai told Annahar. “Time's over, we are not leaving the roads until all our demands are met.”The country is six days post the fall of the cabinet. After Prime Minister Saad Hariri resigned last Tuesday, protesters opened the roads and gave the government a few days to process their two remaining demands: the formation of a technocrat government and early elections. Nonetheless, the government has not yet responded to the cries of the the Lebanese.Accordingly, protesters united once again on Ahad Al Daghet, which translates to Sunday’s pressure in English. From Lebanon’s far south to its far north, crowds filled the streets, blocking some areas including: Jal el-Dib, Ring Bridge, and Bliss Street.Photo from Jal el-Dib Annahar Correspondent reported from Jal el-Dib that demonstrators were able to block the highway from its north to its south in sizable numbers despite the army’s attempt to prevent them, exceeding all expectations. Church bells rang while demonstrators chanted: Selmiye (peaceful) and thawra (revolution).  “Nothing drove me back to the streets, as I have never really left,” A protester at Ring Bridge said. “The spirit of the people today was refreshing, it seemed as if everyone was ready to start all over again. The government has resigned yet no PM was assigned, and we do not have any clue on what the new government would look like. This is why we need to stay in the streets to pressure the political class into creating the desired government in the fastest time frame possible and with our conditions.”TK Maloy and Paula Nawfal contributed to the article. Related Articles Tens of thousands demand sweeping government formation  Lebanon court sentences man to death in UK woman's death  Lebanese with special needs revolt

        Show Comments
      
